<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>1-21</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:e3e9d1fd-0cb4-4306-b223-88407e6e7003" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body id="x1" xml:lang="tr-TR">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<p class="split" xml:lang="en-GB">  </p>
			<p class="anabaslik ParaOverride-6" id="_idParaDest-18">KAYNAKÇA  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Adams, Robert, “Moral Arguments for Theistic Belief”, <span class="CharOverride-2">Rat</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ionality and Religious B</span><span class="CharOverride-2">elief</span>, Ed: C. Delaney, University of Notre Dame Press, Notre Dame, 1979.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Aydın, Mehmet S., <span class="CharOverride-2">Din Felsefesi</span>, İzmir İlahiyat Fakültesi Vakfı Yayınları, İzmir, 1999.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Barbour, Ian, <span class="CharOverride-2">Wh</span><span class="CharOverride-2">en Science Meets Religi</span><span class="CharOverride-2">on</span>,<span class="CharOverride-2"> </span>Harper Collins Publishers, New York, 2000.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Barbour, Ian, <span class="CharOverride-2">Issues </span><span class="CharOverride-2">in Science and Religion</span>, Harper And Row Publishers, New York, 1971.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Barrow, John ve Tipler, Frank, <span class="CharOverride-2">The Ant</span><span class="CharOverride-2">hropic Cosmological Prin</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ciple</span>, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1996.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Beversluis, John, <span class="CharOverride-2">C. S. Le</span><span class="CharOverride-2">wis and  the Search  for </span><span class="CharOverride-2">Rational  Religion</span>, Prometheus Books, New York, 2007.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Bishop, John, <span class="CharOverride-2">Natural Agency</span>, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1989.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Black, Donald, “On the Origins of Morality”, <span class="CharOverride-2">Ev</span><span class="CharOverride-2">olutionary Origins  of Mo</span><span class="CharOverride-2">rality: Cross-Discipli</span><span class="CharOverride-2">nary Perpectives</span>, Ed: Leonard Katz, Imprint Academic, Thorverton, 2000.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Block, Ned, “Troubles with Functionalism”, <span class="CharOverride-2">Minnesot</span><span class="CharOverride-2">a Studies in The Philoso</span><span class="CharOverride-2">phy  of Science</span>, No: 9, 1978.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Bloom, Paul, “The Moral Life of Babies”, <span class="CharOverride-9">The New York Times</span>, 5 Mayıs 2010.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Butts, Robert E., “William Whewell”, <span class="CharOverride-2">The Cambridge D</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ictionary of Philosophy</span>,  Ed: Robert Audi, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1999.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Carter, Brandon, “Large Number Coincidences and the Anthropic Principle in Cosmology”, Ed: John Leslie, <span class="CharOverride-2">Physical Cosmology and</span><span class="CharOverride-2"> Philosophy</span>, Macmillan Publishing, New York, 1990.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Churchland, Paul, <span class="CharOverride-2">Matter and Conscious</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ness</span>, MIT Press, Cambridge, 1999.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Clayton, Philip, “Neuroscience, The Person and God: An Emergentist Account”, Ed: Robert John Russell ve diğerleri, <span class="CharOverride-2">Neu</span><span class="CharOverride-2">roscience and The Person</span>, Vatican Observatory Publications, Vatikan, 2002.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Collins, Robin, “Tanrı, Tasarım ve İnce Ayar”, <span class="CharOverride-2">Allah, Felsefe ve Bil</span><span class="CharOverride-2">im</span>, Ed: Caner Taslaman ve Enis Doko, İstanbul Yayınevi, İstanbul, 2014.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Craig, William Lane, “Kelam Kozmolojik Kanıtı”, <span class="CharOverride-2">Allah, Felsefe v</span><span class="CharOverride-2">e Bilim</span>, Ed: Caner Taslaman ve Enis Doko, İstanbul Yayınevi, İstanbul, 2015.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Craig, William Lane, <span class="CharOverride-2">The Kalam  Cosmo</span><span class="CharOverride-2">logical  Argument</span>, Wipf and Stock Publishers, Eugene, 2000.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Darwin, Charles, <span class="CharOverride-2">The Origin of </span><span class="CharOverride-2">Species</span>, Penguin Classics, Londra, 1985.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Davies, Paul, <span class="CharOverride-2">God  and  The  </span><span class="CharOverride-2">New Physics</span>,  Simon and Schuster, New York, 1984.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Davies, Paul, <span class="CharOverride-2">The  A</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ccidental Universe</span>,  Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1982.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Davies, Paul, <span class="CharOverride-2">The Last </span><span class="CharOverride-2">Three Minutes</span>,  Basic Books, New York, 1994.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Dawkins, Richard, <span class="CharOverride-2">Climb</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ing  Mount  Improbable</span>, W. W. Norton, New York, 1997.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Dawkins, Richard, <span class="CharOverride-2">Kör Saatçi</span>, Çev: Feryal Halatçı, TÜBİTAK, Ankara, 2002.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Dawkins, Richard, <span class="CharOverride-2">The God De</span><span class="CharOverride-2">lusion</span>, Black Swan, Londra, 2007.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Dembski, William A., <span class="CharOverride-2">No Free L</span><span class="CharOverride-2">unch</span>,  Rowman and Littlefield Publishers, Lanham, 2002.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Denton, Michael J., <span class="CharOverride-2">Nature’s Dest</span><span class="CharOverride-2">iny</span>, The Free Press, New York, 1998.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Dimion, M., Simion F. ve Caltran G., “Can Newborns Discriminate Between Their Own Cry and the Cry of Another Newborn Infant”, <span class="CharOverride-2">Developmental  Ps</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ychology</span>, Vol: 35/2, 1999.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Dorman, Emre, <span class="CharOverride-2">De</span><span class="CharOverride-2">izm ve Eleştirisi</span>, Marmara Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü, doktora tezi, İstanbul, 2009.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Eddington, Arthur, <span class="CharOverride-2">The Nature </span><span class="CharOverride-2">of the Physical World</span>, Macmillan, New York, 1929.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Feuerbach, Ludwig, <span class="CharOverride-2">L</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ectures on the Essence</span><span class="CharOverride-2"> of Religion</span>, 1851, http://<a href="http://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/feuerbach/works/lectures/lec30.htm">www.marxists.org/reference/archive/feuerbach/works/lectures/lec30.htm</a>  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Flew, Antony, <span class="CharOverride-2">There Is A God: How</span><span class="CharOverride-2"> The World’s Most No</span><span class="CharOverride-2">torious Atheist Chan</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ged  His Mind</span>, Harper Collins, New York, 2007.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Freud, Sigmund, <span class="CharOverride-2">The</span><span class="CharOverride-2"> Origins of Religion</span>, Penguin, Londra, 1991.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Freud, Sigmund, <span class="CharOverride-2">The Standard Edition</span><span class="CharOverride-2"> of the Complete Psychol</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ogical Works of Sigmund  Freud, </span><span class="CharOverride-2">Vol: XXI (1927-1931):</span><span class="CharOverride-2"> The Future of an Illusion, </span><span class="CharOverride-2"> Civilization  and  its D</span><span class="CharOverride-2">iscontents,  and  Other </span><span class="CharOverride-2">Works</span>, The Hogarth Press and the Institute of Psycho-analysis, Londra, 1961.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Gasking, Elizabeth, <span class="CharOverride-2">Investigation</span><span class="CharOverride-2">s into Generations</span>, Hutchinson and Co Publishers, Londra, 1967.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Gazzali, <span class="CharOverride-2">Filo</span><span class="CharOverride-2">zofların  Tutarsızlığı</span>, Çev: Mahmut Kaya ve Hüseyin Sarıoğlu, Klasik, İstanbul, 2005.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Glass, John I. ve diğerleri, “Essential Genes of a Minimal Bacterium”, <span class="CharOverride-2">Procee</span><span class="CharOverride-2">dings of the National </span><span class="CharOverride-2"> Academy of Sciences</span>, 103/2, 2006. Gould, Stephen Jay, Wonderful Life, W. W. Norton and Company, New York, 2007  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Green, Joel B., “Restoring The Human Person: New Testament Voices For A Wholistic and Social Antropology”, <span class="CharOverride-2">Neuroscien</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ce And The Person</span>, Ed: Robert John Russell ve diğerleri, Vatican Observatory Publications, Vatikan, 2002.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Guillen, Michael, <span class="CharOverride-2">Dünyayı D</span><span class="CharOverride-2">eğiştiren Beş Denklem</span>, Çev: Gürsel Tanrıöver, TÜBİTAK Popüler Bilim Kitapları, Ankara, 2001.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Haidth, J., “The Emotional Dog and Its Rational Tail: A Social Intuitionist Approach to Moral Judgment”, <span class="CharOverride-2">Psychological Revi</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ew</span>, No: 108, 2001.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Harris, Sam, <span class="CharOverride-2">Free Will</span>, Free Press, New York, 2012.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Hasker, William, <span class="CharOverride-2">Meta</span><span class="CharOverride-2">physics</span>, Inter Varsity Press, Downer’s Grove, 1983.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Hick, John, <span class="CharOverride-2">Arg</span><span class="CharOverride-2">uments for the Existe</span><span class="CharOverride-2">nce  of God</span>, Herder and Herder, New York, 1971.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Hume, David, <span class="CharOverride-2">Dialogu</span><span class="CharOverride-2">es and  Natural Histo</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ry of Religion</span>, Ed: J.A.C.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Gaskin, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1993.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Hutcheson, Francis, <span class="CharOverride-2">A System of Moral </span><span class="CharOverride-2">Philosophy</span>,  Continuum International Publishing Group, New York, 2005.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Jackson, Frank, “Epiphenomenal Qualia”, <span class="CharOverride-2">Ph</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ilosophical  Quarterly</span>, No: 32, 1982.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Jackson, Frank, <span class="CharOverride-2">From Metaphysics  to </span><span class="CharOverride-2">Ethics: A Defence of </span><span class="CharOverride-2">Conceptual Analysis</span>, Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1998.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Kant, Immanuel, <span class="CharOverride-2">Fu</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ndamental Principles </span><span class="CharOverride-2">of the Metaphysics  of</span><span class="CharOverride-2"> Morals</span>, Çev: Thomas Kingsmill Abbott, William Benton, Chicago, 1971.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Kant, Immanuel, <span class="CharOverride-2">The </span><span class="CharOverride-2">Critique of Practica</span><span class="CharOverride-2">l Reason</span>, Çev: Thomas Kingsmill Abbott, William Benton, Chicago, 1971.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Kant, Immanuel, <span class="CharOverride-2">The Critique of Pur</span><span class="CharOverride-2">e Reason</span>, Çev: J. M. D. Meiklejohn, William Benton, Chicago, 1971.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Kaufmann, Walter, <span class="CharOverride-2">Portable Nietzche</span>, The Viking Press, New York, 1954.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Kelemen, Deborah, “Are Children Intuitive Theists? Reasoning about Purpose and Design in Nature”, <span class="CharOverride-2">Phsych</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ological Science</span>, No: 15/5, 2004.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Kelemen, Deborah, “The Scope of Teleological Thinking in Preschool Children”, <span class="CharOverride-2">Cognition</span>, No: 70, 1999.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Kim, Jaegwon, <span class="CharOverride-2">Mi</span><span class="CharOverride-2">nd in A Physical World: An </span><span class="CharOverride-2">Essay on The Mind-Bod</span><span class="CharOverride-2">y Problem and Mental Caus</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ation</span>, MIT Press, Cambridge MA, 1998.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Kindi, “İlk Felsefe Üzerine”, <span class="CharOverride-2">İslam  Filozoflarından</span><span class="CharOverride-2"> Felsefe Metinleri</span>, Ed: Mahmut Kaya, Klasik, İstanbul, 2005.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Kreeft, Peter J. ve Tacelli, Ronald K., <span class="CharOverride-2">Pocke</span><span class="CharOverride-2">t  Handbook of Christia</span><span class="CharOverride-2">n Apolegetics</span>, InterVarsity Press, Downers Grove, 2003.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Leibniz, G. W., <span class="CharOverride-2">New Essays on Huma</span><span class="CharOverride-2">n Understanding</span>, Ed: Peter Remnont ve Jonathan Bennett, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1996.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Leslie, John, “Anthropic Principle, World Ensemble, Design”, <span class="CharOverride-2">American Phi</span><span class="CharOverride-2">losophical  Quarterly</span>, No: 19, 1982.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Leslie, John, <span class="CharOverride-2">Universes</span>, Routledge, New York, 1989.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Lewis, C. S., <span class="CharOverride-2">Christian </span><span class="CharOverride-2">Reflections</span>,  William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company, Grand Rapids, 1995.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Libet, Benjamin ve diğerleri, “Time of Conscious Intention to Act in Relation to Onset of Cerebral Activity (Readiness-Potential)”, <span class="CharOverride-2">Brain</span>, No: 106-3, 1983.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Lipton, Peter, <span class="CharOverride-2">Inference to the Best</span><span class="CharOverride-2"> Explanation</span>, Routledge, Londra, 2001.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Locke, John, <span class="CharOverride-2">An Essay Conc</span><span class="CharOverride-2">erning Human  Understandi</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ng</span>, Prometheus Books, New York, 1995.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Lovell, Steven Jon James, <span class="CharOverride-2">Philosophical  T</span><span class="CharOverride-2">hemes from C. S. Lewi</span><span class="CharOverride-2">s</span>, Department of Philosophy University of Sheffield, PhD Thesis, August 2003.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Marx, Karl ve Engels, Friedrich, <span class="CharOverride-2">Felse</span><span class="CharOverride-2">fe İncelemeleri</span>, Çev: Sevim Belli, Sol Yayınları, İstanbul 1997.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Mayr, Ernst, <span class="CharOverride-2">The Growth of</span><span class="CharOverride-2"> Biological Thought</span>,  The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, Cambridge, 1982.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Mill, John Stuart, <span class="CharOverride-2">Utilitari</span><span class="CharOverride-2">anism</span>, Hackett Publishing, Indianapolis, 2001.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Monod, Jacques, <span class="CharOverride-2">Cha</span><span class="CharOverride-2">nce and Necessity</span>, Çev: Austryn Wainhouse, Vintage Books, New York, 1972.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Morris, Simon Conway, <span class="CharOverride-2">Life’s Soluti</span><span class="CharOverride-2">on: Inevitable  Humans </span><span class="CharOverride-2">in A Lonely Universe</span>, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 2005.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Morris, Simon Conway, <span class="CharOverride-2">The Deep Structure o</span><span class="CharOverride-2">f Biology</span>, Templeton Foundation Press, Pennsylvania, 2008.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Nagel, Thomas, <span class="CharOverride-2">The Last W</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ords</span>, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2001.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Newton, Isaac, <span class="CharOverride-2">The Princip</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ia: Mathematical Prin</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ciples of Natural Philoso</span><span class="CharOverride-2">phy</span>, Çev: Bernard Cohen ve diğ., The University of California Press, Berkeley, 1999.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Nordenskiöld, Erik, <span class="CharOverride-2">The </span><span class="CharOverride-2">History of Biology</span>, Çev: L. Bucknall Eyre, Tudor Publishing, New York, 1920.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Nowacki, Mark, <span class="CharOverride-2">The Kalam Cosm</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ological Argument for </span><span class="CharOverride-2">God</span>, Prometheus Books, Amherst NY., 2007.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Orgel, Leslie, “Evolution of the Genetic Apparatus”, <span class="CharOverride-2">J Mol. Bi</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ol</span>, 38/3, 1968.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Pascal, Blaise, <span class="CharOverride-2">Pensees</span>, Çev: A. J. Krailsheimer, Penguin Classics, Londra, 1966.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Penrose, Roger, <span class="CharOverride-2">K</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ralın Yeni Usu 3: Us </span><span class="CharOverride-2">Nerede</span>, Çev: Tekin Dereli, TÜBİTAK Popüler Bilim Kitapları, Ankara 2003.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Penrose, Roger, <span class="CharOverride-2">The Road to Reali</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ty</span>, Jonathan Cope, Londra, 2004.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Politzer, Georges, <span class="CharOverride-2">Felsefenin  Ba</span><span class="CharOverride-2">şlangıç  İlkeleri</span>, Çev: Enver Aytekin, Sosyal Yayınlar, İstanbul, 1997.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Ramsey, William, “Eliminative Materialism”, <span class="CharOverride-2">The Stanford Encyclop</span><span class="CharOverride-2">edia of Philosophy</span>  (Summer 2013 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <a href="http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/sum2013/entries/materia-">http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/sum2013/entries/materia- </a>lism-eliminative  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Rawls, John, <span class="CharOverride-2">A Theory of Justi</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ce</span>, The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, Massachusetts, 1999.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Reid, Thomas, <span class="CharOverride-2">Inqui</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ry and Essays</span>, Ed: R. E. Beanblossom ve K. Lehrer, Hackett Publishing, Indianapolis, 1983.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Reppert, Victor, <span class="CharOverride-2">C.S. Lewis’s Danger</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ous Idea</span>,  IVP Academic, Downers Grove, 2003.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Rose, Steven, <span class="CharOverride-2">Lifel</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ines</span>, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1998.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Ruse, Michael ve Wilson, Edward O., “The Evolution of Ethics”, <span class="CharOverride-2">Philos</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ophy of Biology</span>, Ed: Michael Ruse, Prentice Hall, New Jersey, 1989.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Russell, Bertrand, <span class="CharOverride-2">Mysticism and Logic a</span><span class="CharOverride-2">nd Other Essays: A Fr</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ee Man’s Worship</span>, Longmans, Londra, 1918.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Sartre, Jean-Paul, <span class="CharOverride-2">Ba</span><span class="CharOverride-2">sic Writings</span>, Ed: Stephen Priest, Routledge, Londra, 2001.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Schopenhauer, Arthur, <span class="CharOverride-2">The World a</span><span class="CharOverride-2">s Will and Representa</span><span class="CharOverride-2">tion</span>, Vol: 2, Çev: E. F. J. Payne, Harper and Row, New York, 1966.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Searle, John R., Minds, <span class="CharOverride-2">Brains and Science</span>, Harvard University Press, Massachusetts, 1985.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Searle, John R., <span class="CharOverride-2">Zi</span><span class="CharOverride-2">hnin  Yeniden Keşfi</span>, Çev: Muhittin Macit, Litera Yayıncılık, İstanbul, 2004.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Shaftesbury, Lord, <span class="CharOverride-2">Characteristics </span><span class="CharOverride-2">of Men, Manners, Opinio</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ns, Times</span>, Ed: Lawrence Klein, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 2001.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Simner, M. L., “Newborn’s Response to the Cry of Another Infant”, <span class="CharOverride-2">Develo</span><span class="CharOverride-2">pmental  Psychology</span>, No: 5, 1971.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Singer, Tania, “The Neuronal Basis and Ontogeny of Empathy and Mind Reading: Review of Literature and Implications for Future Research”, <span class="CharOverride-2">Neuroscience and</span><span class="CharOverride-2"> Biobehavioral Review</span><span class="CharOverride-2">s</span>, No: 30, 2006.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Skinner, B. F., <span class="CharOverride-2">About Be</span><span class="CharOverride-2">haviorism</span>,  Vintage Books Edition, New York, 1976.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Skrbina, David, <span class="CharOverride-2">Panpsychism in The</span><span class="CharOverride-2"> West</span>, MIT Press, Cambridge Mass., 2005.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Smith, Adam, <span class="CharOverride-2">The Theory </span><span class="CharOverride-2">of Moral Sentiments</span>, Liberty Classics, Indianapolis, 1976.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Suhler, Christopher ve Churchland, Patricia, “The Neurobiological Basis of Morality”, <span class="CharOverride-2">The Oxford Handbo</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ok of Neuroethics</span>, Ed: Judy Illes ve Barbara J. Sahakian, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2011.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Swinburne, Richard, <span class="CharOverride-2">Tanrı Var Mı?</span>,<span class="CharOverride-2"> </span>Çev: Muhsin Akbaş, Arasta Yayınları, Bursa, 2001.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Swinburne, Richard, <span class="CharOverride-2">The Existence o</span><span class="CharOverride-2">f God</span>, 2. Baskı, Clarendon Press, Oxford, 2004.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Taslaman, Caner ve Doko, Enis, <span class="CharOverride-2">Kuran ve Bilimsel </span><span class="CharOverride-2">Zihnin  İnşası</span>,  İstanbul Yayınevi, İstanbul, 2015.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Taslaman, Caner, “Din Felsefesi Açısından Entropi Yasası”, <span class="CharOverride-2">Mar</span><span class="CharOverride-2">mara Üniversitesi İlahiya</span><span class="CharOverride-2">t  Fakültesi  Dergisi</span>, Sayı: 30, İstanbul, 2006.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Taslaman, Caner, “Tanrı Parçacığı: Felsefi Bir Değerlendirme”, <span class="CharOverride-2">Felsefe Dünyası</span>, No: 56, 2012.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Taslaman, Caner, <span class="CharOverride-2">Arzulardan All</span><span class="CharOverride-2">ah’a Ulaşmak</span>, Etkileşim Yayınları, İstanbul, 2014.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Taslaman, Caner, <span class="CharOverride-2">Big Bang ve Tanrı</span>, İstanbul Yayınevi, İstanbul, 2014.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Taslaman, Caner, <span class="CharOverride-2">Evrenden Allah’a</span>, Etkileşim Yayınları, İstanbul, 2013.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Taslaman, Caner, <span class="CharOverride-2">Evrim Teo</span><span class="CharOverride-2">risi, Felsefe ve Tan</span><span class="CharOverride-2">rı</span>, İstanbul Yayınevi, İstanbul, 2014.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Taslaman, Caner, <span class="CharOverride-2">Kuantum Te</span><span class="CharOverride-2">orisi, Felsefe ve Ta</span><span class="CharOverride-2">nrı</span>, İstanbul Yayınevi, İstanbul, 2015.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Taslaman, Caner, <span class="CharOverride-2">Modern Bili</span><span class="CharOverride-2">m, Felsefe ve Tanrı</span>, İstanbul Yayınevi, İstanbul, 2008.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Till, Howard von, “Basil and Augustine Revised: The Survival of Functional Integrity”, <span class="CharOverride-2">Origins and Design</span>, No: 19, Yaz 1998.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Wegner, Daniel, <span class="CharOverride-2">The  Illu</span><span class="CharOverride-2">sion  of Conscious  Will</span>, MIT Press, Cambridge, 2002.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Wigner, Eugene, “The Unreasonable Effectiveness of Mathematics in the Natural Sciences”, <span class="CharOverride-2">Communications in Pu</span><span class="CharOverride-2">re and Applied Mathem</span><span class="CharOverride-2">atics</span>, Vol: 13, No: 1, Şubat 1960.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Willard, Dallas, “Knowledge and Naturalism”, <span class="CharOverride-2">Natur</span><span class="CharOverride-2">alism: A Critical Analysi</span><span class="CharOverride-2">s</span>, Ed: William Lane Craig ve James Moreland, Routledge, Londra, 2000.  </p>
			<p class="paragraf ParaOverride-10">Wilson, Catherine, <span class="CharOverride-2">The Invisible World E</span><span class="CharOverride-2">arly Modern Philosophy </span><span class="CharOverride-2">and the Invention  of t</span><span class="CharOverride-2">he Microscope</span>, Princeton University Press, Princeton, 1995.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>