<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <link href="../Styles/epub_css.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

  <title></title>
</head>

<body>
  <div class="bibliography">
    <h1 class="chapter">KAYNAKÇA</h1>

    <p class="refence">Abdel Nour, Antoine. 1982. <i>Introduction à l’histoire urbaine de la Syrie ottomane, XVI-XVIII siècle,</i> Beyrut: Université Libanaise und Librairie Orientale.</p>

    <p class="refence">Abou-El-Haj, Rifa’at. 1982. “The Social Uses of the Past: Recent Arap Historiography of Ottoman Rule,” <i>International Journal of Middle East Studies,</i> 14, s. 185-201.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1984. <i>The 1703 Rebellion and the Structure of Ottoman Politics,</i> İstanbul, Leiden: Nederlands Historisch-Archeologisch Instituut.</p>

    <p class="refence">-1991. <i>Formation of the Ottoman State, The Ottoman Empire Sixteenth to Eighteenth Centuries</i>, Albany NY: SUNY Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Abu-Lughod, Janet. 1980. <i>Rabat, Urban Apartheid in Marocco,</i> Princeton N. J.: Princeton University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Adanır, Fikret. 1982. “Haiduckentum und osmanische Herrschaft. Sozialgeschichtliche Aspekte der Diskussion um das Frühneuzeitliche Räuberunwesen in Südosteuropa,” <i>Südost-Forschungen,</i> 41, s. 43-116.</p>

    <p class="refence">Adıvar, Abdülhak Adnan. 1943. <i>Osmanlı Türklerinde İlim,</i> İstanbul: Maarif Vekilliği.</p>

    <p class="refence">Ahmed Refik. 1932. <i>Onaltıncı Asırda Rafizîlik ve Bektaşîlik, Onaltıncı Asırda Türkiye’de Rafizîlik ve Bektaşîliğe Dair Hazine-i Evrak Vesikalarını Havidir,</i> İstanbul: Muallim Ahmet Halit.</p>

    <p class="refence">-1977. <i>Türk Mimarları, Hazine-i Evrak Vesikalarına Göre,</i> İstanbul: Sander.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1988 (yeni basım). <i>Onuncu Asrı-ı Hicride İstanbul Hayatı,</i> 1495-1591, İstanbul: Enderun Kitapevi.</p>

    <p class="refence">Ahmed Resmî. 1303-1886. <i>Sefaretname,</i> İstanbul: Kitabhane-yi Ebuzziya.</p>

    <p class="refence">Akarlı, Engin. 1985/1986. “<i>Gedik</i>: Implements, Mastership, Shop Usufruct and Monopoly among İstanbul Artisans, 1750-1850,” <i>WissenschaftskollegJahrbuch,</i> s. 223-232.</p>

    <p class="refence">Akdağ, Mustafa. 1963. <i>Celali isyanları, 1550-1603,</i> Ankara: AÜ Dil ve Tarih Coğrafya Fakültesi.</p>

    <p class="refence">Akın, Günkut. 1993. “Tanzimat ve bir Aydınlanma Simgesi,” <i>Osman Hamdi Bey ve Dönemi, 17-18 Aralık 1992,</i> İstanbul: Tarih Vakfı Yurt Yayınları, s. 123-133.</p>

    <p class="refence">Aksan, Virginia. 1995. <i>An Ottoman Statesman in War and Peace: Ahmed Resmi Efendi 1700-1783,</i> Leiden: E. J. Brill.</p>

    <p class="refence">Aktepe, Münir. 1958a. “İstanbul Nüfus Meselesine Dair Bazı Vesikalar.” <i>Tarih Dergisi,</i> IX, 13, s. 1-30.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1958b. <i>Patrona İsyanı, 1730,</i> İstanbul: İstanbul Üniversitesi Edebiyat Fakültesi.</p>

    <p class="refence">Aktüre, Sevgi. 1978. <i>19. Yüzyıl Sonunda Anadolu Kenti, Mekansal Yapı Çözümlemesi,</i> Ankara: ODTÜ Mimarlık Fakültesi.</p>

    <p class="refence">Alexander, John. 1985. “Law of the Conqueror (the Ottoman State) and Law of the Conquered (the Orthodox Church): the Case of Marriage and Divorce,” <i>XVI Congrès International des Sciences Historiques, Rapports,</i> 2 cilt, Stuttgart: Comité International des Sciences Historiques, c. 1, s. 369-371.</p>

    <p class="refence">Alexandrescu-Dersca, Marie-Mathilde. 1977 (yeni basım). <i>La campagne de Timur en Anatolie,</i> Londra: Variorum.</p>

    <p class="refence">Algar, Ayla. 1992. “Food in the Life of the Tekke,” <i>The Dervish Lodge, Architecture, Art and Sufism in Ottoman Turkey,</i> Raymond Lifehez (ed), Berkeley: University of California Press, s. 296-306.</p>

    <p class="refence">Allen, Terry. 1993. <i>Imagining Paradise in Islamic Art,</i> elektron, yay., Sebastopol, CA: Solipsist Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">And, Metin. 1959. <i>Kırk Gün Kırk Gece. Eski Donanma ve Şenliklerde Seyirlik Oyunları,</i> İstanbul: Taç Yayınları.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1972. <i>Tanzimat ve İstibdat Döneminde Türk Tiyatrosu, 1839-1908,</i> Ankara: Türkiye İş Bankası.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1975. <i>Karagöz, Turkish Shadow Theatre,</i> Ankara: Dost Yayınları.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1982. <i>Osmanlı Şenliklerinde Türk Sanatları</i>, Ankara: Kültür ve Turizm Bakanlığı.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1983. <i>Türk Tiyatrosunun Evreleri,</i> Ankara: Turhan Kitabevi.</p>

    <p class="refence">Anhegger, Robert. 1991. “Melling et la Sultane Hadidgé,” Cornelis Boschma, Jacques Perot (ed), <i>Antoine-Ignace Melling (1763-1831), artiste-voyageur,</i> Paris: Editions Paris-Musées, s. 28-31.</p>

    <p class="refence">Anonim. 1980. <i>Le café en Méditerranée, histoire, anthropologie, économie, XVI-II-XX siècle,</i> Aix-en-Provence: Institut de Recherches méditerranéennes.</p>

    <p class="refence">Arel, Ayda. 1968. “Menteşe Beyliği Devrinde Peçin Şehri,” <i>Anadolu Sanatı Araştırmaları,</i> I, s. 69-98.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1975. <i>18. Yüzyılda İstanbul Mimarisinde Batılaşma Süreci,</i> İstanbul: İTÜ Mimarlık Fakültesi.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1982. <i>Osmanlı Konut Geleneğinde Tarihsel Sorunlar,</i> İzmir: Ege Üniversitesi Güzel Sanatlar Fakültesi.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1986. <i>“Image architecturale et image urbaine dans une série de basreliefs ottomans de la region égéenne," Turcica,</i> s. 83-117.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1993. “Gothic Towers and Baroque Mihrabs: The Post-classical Architecture of Aegean Anatolia in the Eighteenth and Nineteenth Centuries,” <i>Muqarnas, X, Essays in Honor of Oleg Grabar,</i> s. 212-218.</p>

    <p class="refence">Arık, Rüçhan. 1976. <i>Batılılaşma Dönemi Anadolu Tasvir Sanatı,</i> Ankara: Türkiye İş Bankası.</p>

    <p class="refence">Artan, Tülay. 1988. “Architecture as a Theatre of Life: Profile of the Eighteenth-Century Bosphorus”, yayımlanmamış doktora tezi, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge MA.</p>

    <p class="refence">-1992. “Topkapı Sarayı Arşivindeki Bir Grup Mimari Çizimin Düşündürdükleri,” <i>Topkapı Sarayı Müzesi, Yıllık,</i> 5, s. 7-55.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1993. “From Charismatic Leadership to Collective Rule, Introducing Materials on the Wealth and Power of Ottoman Princesses in the Eighteenth Century,” <i>Toplum ve Ekonomi,</i> 4, s. 53-94</p>

    <p class="refence">-(hazırlanıyor) “Early 20th Century Maps and 18th-19th Century Court Records: Sources for a Combined Reconstruction of Urban Continuity on the Bosporus”.</p>

    <p class="refence">Assmann, Aleida und Jan - Hardmeimer, Christof (ed) 1993. <i>Schrift und Gedächtnis, Archäologie der literarischen Kommumunikation I,</i> Münih: Wilhelm Fink Verlag.</p>

    <p class="refence">Aşıkpaşazade. 1959. <i>Vom Hirtenzelt zur Hohen Pforte, Frühzeit und Aufstieg des Osmanenreiches nach der Chronik “Denkwürdigkeiten und Zeitläufte des Hauses ‘Osman’ vom Derwisch Ahmed...”,</i> çev. Richard Kreutel. Viyana, Graz, Köln: Styria.</p>

    <p class="refence">Atasoy, Nurhan - Raby, Julian. 1989. <i>İznik, the Pottery of Ottoman Turkey,</i> Londra: Alexandria Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Atıl, Esin. 1969. “Surname-i Vehbi: An Eighteenth-Century Ottoman Book of Festivals”, yayımlanmamış doktora tezi, University Microfilms.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1987. <i>The Age of Sultan Süleyman the Magnificent,</i> Washington DC, New York: National Gallery of Art, Harry N Abrams Inc.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1993. “The Story of an Eighteenth-Century Ottoman Festival,” <i>Muqarnas,</i> 10, <i>Essays in Honor of Oleg Grabar,</i> s. 181-200.</p>

    <p class="refence">Augustinus, Aurelius. 1985. <i>Die Bekenntnisse,</i> Münih: dtv.</p>

    <p class="refence">Aymard, Maurice. 1989. “Friends and Neighbours,” <i>The History of Private Life,</i> c. Ill, <i>Passions of the Renaissance,</i> çev. Arthur Goldhammer, Cambridge MA: Belknap Press ve Harvard University Press, s. 447-492.</p>

    <p class="refence">Ayverdi, Ekrem Hakkı. 1958. <i>Fatih Devri Sonlarında İstanbul Mahalleleri, Şehrin Iskanı ve Nüfusu,</i> Ankara: Vakıflar Umum Müdürlüğü.</p>

    <p class="refence">Babinger, Franz. 1962a. “Mehmeds II. Heirat mit Sitt-Chatun, 1449,” <i>Aufsätze und Abhandlungen zur Geschichte Südosteuropas und der Levante,</i> Münih: Südosteuropa Verlagsgesellschaft, c. 1, s. 335-369.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1962b. “Beiträge zur Geschichte der Malqoc-Oghlus,” <i>Aufsätze und Abhandlungen zur Geshichte Siidosteuropas und der Levante,</i> München: Südosteuropa Verlagsgesellschaft, c. I, s. 355-369.</p>

    <p class="refence">Bacqué-Grammont, Jean-Louis ve diğ. 1991. <i>Anatolia Moderna/ Yeni Anadolu,</i> İstanbul, Paris: Institut Français d’études anatolienncs ve Librairie d’Amérique et d’Orient.</p>

    <p class="refence">Baer, Gabriel. 1983. “Women and Waqf: An Analysis of the Istanbul Tahrir of 1546,” Asian <i>and African Studies,</i> 17, s. 9-27.</p>

    <p class="refence">Bağış, Ali İhsan. 1983. <i>Osmanlı Ticaretinde Gayri Müslimler, Kapitülasyonlar, Beratlı Tüccarlar ve Hayriye Tüccarları,</i> 1950-1839, Ankara: Turhan Kitapevi.</p>

    <p class="refence">Barbir, Karl. 1979/80. “From Pasha to Efendi: The Assimilation of Ottomans into Damascene Society 1516-1783,” <i>International Journal of Turkish Studies,</i> 1, 1, s. 68-83.</p>

    <p class="refence">Barkan, Ömer Lütfi. 1942a. Osmanlı İmparatorluğunda bir İskan ve Kolonizasyon Metodu Olarak Vakıflar ve Temlikler,” <i>Vakıflar Dergisi,</i> 11, s. 279-386.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1942b. “Bazı Büyük Şehirlerde Eşya ve Yiyecek Fiyatlarının Tesbit ve Teftişi Hususlarını Tanzim Eden Kanunlar,” <i>Tarih Vesikaları,</i> 1, 5, s. 326-340; 11, 7, s. 15-40; 11, 9, s. 168-177.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1949/50, 1951/52, 1953/54. “Osmanlı İmparatorluğunda bir İskan ve Kolonizasyon Metodu Olarak Sürgünler,” <i>İstanbul Üniversitesi İktisat Fakültesi Mecmuası,</i> XI, 1-4, s. 524-569; XIII, 1-4, s. 56-78; XV, 1-4, s. 209-237.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1951. “Tarihî Demografi Araştırmaları ve Osmanlı Tarihi,” <i>Türkiyat Mecmuası,</i> X, s. 1-26.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1963. “Şehirlerin Teşekkül ve İnkişafı Tarihi Bakımından: Osmanlı İmparatorluğunda İmaret Sitelerinin Kuruluş ve İşleyiş Tarzına Ait Araştırmalar,” <i>İstanbul Üniversitesi İktisat Fakültesi Mecmuası,</i> 23, 1-2, s. 239-296.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1966. “Edirne Askeri Kassam’ına Ait Tereke Defterleri, 1545-1659,” <i>Belgeler</i>, 111, 5-6, s. 1-479.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1942-1970. <i>Süleymaniye Cami ve İmareti İnşaatı,</i> 2 c., Ankara: Türk Tarih Kurumu.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1975a. “‘Feodal’ Düzen ve Osmanlı Tımarı,” <i>Türkiye İktisat Tarihi Semineri, Metinler/Tartışmalar...</i> Osman Okyar ve Ünal Nalbantoğlu (ed), Ankara: Hacettepe Üniversitesi, s. 1-32.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1975b. “The Price Revolution of the Sixteenth Century: A Turning Point in the Economic History of the Near East,” <i>International Journal of Middle East Studies,</i> 6, s. 3-28.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1979. “İstanbul Saraylarına ait Muhasebe Defterleri,” <i>Belgeler</i> IX., 13, s. 1-380.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1980 (yeni basım). “Türk Toprak Hukuku Tatbikatının Osmanlı İmparatorluğunda Aldığı Şekiller: İmparatorluk Devrinde Toprak Mülk ve Vakıflarının Hususiyeti, 1,” <i>Türkiye’de Toprak Meselesi, Toplu Eserler,</i> Abidin Nesimi, Mustafa Şahin, Abdullah Özkan (cd), İstanbul: Gözlem Yayınları, s. 249-280 (a).</p>

    <p class="refence">Barkan, Ömer Lütfi ve Ayverdi, Ekrem. 1970. <i>İstanbul Vakıfları Tahrir Defteri, 953 (1546) Tarihli,</i> İstanbul: İstanbul Fetih Cemiyeti.</p>

    <p class="refence">Barkan, Ömer Lütfi ve Meriçli, Enver, 1988. <i>Hüdavendigâr Livası Tahrir Defterleri</i> 1, Ankara: Atatürk Kültür, Dil ve Tarih Yüksek Kurumu.</p>

    <p class="refence">Barnes, John Robert. 1980. “Evkafı Humayun; Vakıf Administration under the Ottoman Ministry for Imperial Religious Foundations 1839 to 1875”, yayımlanmamış doktora tezi, University of California, Los Angeles.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1986. <i>An Introduction to Religious Foundations in the Ottoman Empire,</i> Leiden: E. J. Brill.</p>

    <p class="refence">Batâri, Ferenc. 1980. “Turkish Rugs in Hungary,” <i>Halı,</i> 3, 2, s. 82-90.</p>

    <p class="refence">Bates, Ülkü. 1978. “Women as Patrons of Architecture in Turkey,” <i>Women in the Muslim World,</i> Beck und Nikki Keddie (ed), Harvard: Harvard University Press, s. 245-260.</p>

    <p class="refence">Bayburtoğlu, M. Zafer, 1973. “Kahraman Maraş’ta bir Grup Dulkadiroğlu Yapısı,” <i>Vakıflar Dergisi,</i> X, s. 234-250.</p>

    <p class="refence">Bayly, Christopher A., 1989. <i>Imperial Meridian, the British Empire and the World, 1780-1830,</i> Londra, New York: Longman.</p>

    <p class="refence">Beaugé, Gilbert ve Çizgen, Engin, t.y. yak. 1993. <i>Images d’empire, Aux origines de la photographie en Turquie, Türkiye’de Fotoğrafın Öncüleri,</i> İstanbul: Institut d’Etudes Françaises d’İstanbul.</p>

    <p class="refence">Behar, Cem. 1990. <i>Ali Ufkî ve Mezmurlar,</i> İstanbul: Pan Yayıncılık.</p>

    <p class="refence">Behrens-Abouseif, Doris. 1989. <i>Islamic Architecture in Cairo -An Introduction,</i> Leiden: E. J. Brill.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1992. The ‘Abd al-Rahmân Katkhudâ Style in 18th Century Cairo,” <i>Annales Islamologiques,</i> 26, s. 117-126.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1994. <i>Egypt’s Adjustment to Ottoman Rule, Institutions, Waqf and Architecture in Cairo,</i> Leiden: E. J. Brill.</p>

    <p class="refence">Beldiceanu-Steinherr, Irène. 1961. <i>Scheich Üftâde, der Begründer des Gelvetij-je Ordens,</i> Münih: kendi yayını.</p>

    <p class="refence">-1971. “La Vita de Seyyid Ali Sultan et la conquête de la thrace par les Turcs,” <i>Proceedings of the Twenty-Seventh Internationl Congress of Orientalists,</i> Ann Arbor, Michigan, 13-19th August 1967, Wiesbaden, s. 275-276.</p>

    <p class="refence">-1991. “Les Bektaşî à la lumière des recensements ottomans, XV-XVI siècles,” <i>Wiener Zeitschrift fur die Kunde des Morgenlandes,</i> 81, s. 21-73.</p>

    <p class="refence">Belge, Murat. 1994. <i>İstanbul Gezi Rehberi,</i> İstanbul: Tarih Vakfı Yurt Yayınları.</p>

    <p class="refence">Bellan, Lucien-Louis. 1932. <i>Chach Abbas I, Sa vie, son histoire,</i> Paris: Paul Geuthner.</p>

    <p class="refence">Bennassar, Bartholomé ve Bennassar, Lucile. 1989. <i>Les chrétiens d’Allah,</i> Paris: Perrin.</p>

    <p class="refence">Berkes, Niyazi. 1962. “İlk Türk Matbaası Kurucusunun Dinî ve Fikrî Kimliği,” <i>Belleten,</i> XXVI, 104, s. 715-737.</p>

    <p class="refence">-t.y. yak. 1978. <i>Türkiye’de Çağdaşlaşma,</i> İstanbul: Doğu-Batı Yayınları.</p>

    <p class="refence">Berkey, Jonathan. 1991. “Women and Islamic Education in the Mamluk Period,” <i>Women in Middle East History,</i> haz. Nikki Keddie ve Beth Baron (ed), New Haven: Yale University Press, s. 143-160.</p>

    <p class="refence">Berktay, Halil. 1991. “Der Aufstieg und die gegenwärtige Krise der nationalistischen Geschichtsschreibung in der Türkei,” <i>Periplus,</i> 1, s. 102-125.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1992. “The Search for the Peasant in Western and Turkish History/Historiography,” <i>New Approaches to State and Peasant in Ottoman History,</i> Halil Berktay ve Suraiya Faroqhi (ed), Londra: Frank Cass, s. 109-184.</p>

    <p class="refence">Beşir, Fuad. t.y. <i>İlk Türk Materyalisti Beşir Fuad’ın Mektupları,</i> Selâhattin Hilav (Giriş), C. Parkan Özturan (ed), İstanbul: ARBA Yayınları.</p>

    <p class="refence">Beydilli, Kemal. 1984. “Ignatius Mouradgea D’Ohsson, Muradcan Tosunyan,” <i>İstanbul Üniversitesi Edebiyat Fakültesi Tarih Dergisi,</i> 34, s. 247-314.</p>

    <p class="refence">Birge, John Kingsley. 1965 (yeni basım). <i>The Bektashi Order of Dervishes,</i> Londra: Luzac.</p>

    <p class="refence">Blaisdell, Donald. 1979. <i>Osmanlı İmparatorluğunda Avrupa Malî Denetimi “Düyunuumumiye”,</i> çev. H. A. Kuyucak ve Ali İhsan Dalgıç, İstanbul: Doğu-Batı Yayınları.</p>

    <p class="refence">Bode, Wilhelm von ve Kühnei, Ernst. 1984. <i>Antique Rugs From the Near East,</i> çev. Charles Grant Ellis, Londra: Bell and Hyman Ltd.</p>

    <p class="refence">Bombaci, Alessio. 1968. <i>Histoire de la littérature turque,</i> çev. Irène Melikoff, Paris: C. Klincksieck.</p>

    <p class="refence">Boratav, Pertev Naili. 1973. <i>100 Soruda Türk Halk Edebiyatı,</i> İstanbul: Gerçek Yayınevi.</p>

    <p class="refence">Boratav, Pertev Naili ve Gölpınarlı Abdülbaki. 1943. <i>Pir Sultan Abdal,</i> Ankara: Ankara Üniversitesi Dil ve Tarih-Coğrafya Fakültesi.</p>

    <p class="refence">Braude, Benjamin. 1982. “Foundation Myths of the Millet System,” <i>Christians and Jews in the Ottoman Empire,</i> Benjamin Braude ve Bernard Lewis (ed), 2 c., New York, Londra: Holmes &amp; Meier, c. 1, s. 69-88.</p>

    <p class="refence">Braudel, Fernand. 1966. <i>La Méditerranée et le monde méditerranéen à l'époque de Philippe II, 2 c.,</i> Paris: Armand Colin.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1979. <i>Civilization matérielle, économie et capitalisme,</i> 3 c., Paris: Armand Colin.</p>

    <p class="refence">Brummett, Palmira. 1991. “Competition and Coincidence: Venetian Trading Interests and Ottoman Expansion in the Early Sixteenth Century Levant,” <i>New Perspectives on Turkey,</i> 5-6, s. 29-52.</p>

    <p class="refence">Burton, Richard. 1964 (yeni basım). <i>Personal Narrative of a Pilgrimage to al-Madinah and Meccah, 2</i> c. New York: Dover Publications.</p>

    <p class="refence">Busbecq, Ogier Ghiselin von, 1926. <i>Vier Bride aus der Türkei,</i> Wolfram von den Steinen (ed. ve yorum), Erlangen: Verlag der Philosophischen Akademic.</p>

    <p class="refence">Cacaoğlu Nur el-Din. 1959. <i>Kırşehir Emiri Caca oğlu Nur el-Din’in 1272 Tarihli Arapça-Moğolca Vakfiyesi,</i> Ahmet Temir (haz.), Ankara: Türk Tarih Kurumu.</p>

    <p class="refence">[Ca’fer Efendi], Howard Crane (ed). 1987. <i>Risâle-i Mi’mâriye, an Early-seven-teenth-century Ottoman Treatise on Architecture,</i> Leiden: E. J. Brill.</p>

    <p class="refence">Cahen, Claude. 1969. “Baba Ishaq, Baba İlyas, Hadjdji Bektash et quelques autres,” <i>Turcia,</i> 1, s. 53-64.</p>

    <p class="refence">Cantemir, Demetrius. 1734. <i>The History of the Growth and Decay of the Ottoman Empire,</i> çev. N. Tindal, Londra: John James &amp; Paul Knapton.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1743. <i>Histoire de I’Empire Ottoman ou se voyentlcs causes dc son aggrandissement et de sa décadence, çev.</i> M. de Joncquiéres, 4 c., Paris: Huart.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1973. <i>Dimitrie Cantemir, Historian of South East European and Oriental Civilizations, Extracts from “The History of the Ottoman Empire”,</i> Alexandru Dutu ve Paul Ccrnovodeanu (ed), Halil İnalcık (Önsöz), Bükreş: Association Internationale d’Etudes du Sud-Est Européen.</p>

    <p class="refence">Caoursin, Guillaume, (hazırlanıyor) “De casu regis Zizimi,” <i>Sultan Djem, Un prince ottoman d’aprés deux sources contemporaines: Vaki’ât-ı Sultan Cem, OEuvres de Guillaume Caoursin,</i> çev. Nicolas Vatin, Ankara: Tarih Kurumu.</p>

    <p class="refence">Castan, Nicole. 1989. “The Public and the Private,” <i>History of Private Life, C.</i> III, Philippe Ariés ve Roger Charrier (ed), çev. Arthur Goldhammer, Cambridge MA: Belknap, s. 403-446.</p>

    <p class="refence">Castellan, Georges. 1991. <i>Histoire des Balkans, XIV-XX siècle,</i> Paris: Fayard.</p>

    <p class="refence">Cerasi, Maurice. 1986. <i>La città del Levante, Civiltà urbana e architettura sotto gli Ottomani nei secoli XVIII-XIX,</i> Milano: Jaca Book.</p>

    <p class="refence">Cezar, Mustafa. 1965. <i>Osmanlı Tarihinde Levendler,</i> İstanbul: İstanbul Güzel Sanatlar Akademisi.</p>

    <p class="refence">Cezar, Yavuz. 1986. <i>Osmanlı Maliyesinde Bunalım ve Değişim Dönemi, XVIII. yy’dan Tanzimat’a Mali Tarih,</i> İstanbul: Alan Yayıncılık.</p>

    <p class="refence">Chambers, Richard. 1973. “The Education of a Nineteenth-century Ottoman <i>Âlim,</i> Ahmed Cevdet Paşa,” <i>International Journal of Middle East Studies, 4,</i> s. 440-464.</p>

    <p class="refence">Charrier, Roger. 1982. <i>Lectures et lecteurs dans la France d’Ancien Régime,</i> Paris: Seuil.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1989. <i>A History of Private Life,</i> c. 3, <i>Passions of the Renaisance,</i> çev. Arthur Goldhammer, Cambridge MA, Londra: The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Cirkovic, Sima. 1986. “Die östlichen Teile Jugoslawiens 1350-1650,” <i>Handbuch der europäischen Wirtschafts- und Sozialgeschichte,</i> Wolfram Fischer ve Hermann Kellenbenz (ed), Stuttgart: Klett Cotta, c. 3, s. 1149-1187.</p>

    <p class="refence">Clogg, Richard. 1982. “The Greek Millet in the Ottoman Empire,” <i>Christians and Jews in the Ottoman Empire,</i> Benjamin Braude ve Bernard Lewis (ed), 2 c., New York, Londra: Holmes &amp; Meier, c. 1, s. 185-208.</p>

    <p class="refence">Cvetkova, Bistra. 1963. “Sur certaines réformes du régime foncier au temps de Mehmet II,” <i>Journal of the Economic and Social History of the Orient,</i> VI, s. 104-120.</p>

    <p class="refence">Çağatay, Neşet. 1971. “Osmanlı İmparatorluğunda Rıba-Faiz Konusu, Para Vakıfları ve Bankacılık”, <i>Vakıflar Dergisi,</i> IX, s. 39-57.</p>

    <p class="refence">Çeçen, Kâzım. 1991. <i>İstanbul’un Vakıf Sularından Halkalı Suları,</i> İstanbul Büyükşehir Belediyesi ve İSKİ.</p>

    <p class="refence">Çelik, Zeynep. 1986. <i>The Remaking of İstanbul, Portrait of an Ottoman City in the Nineteenth Century,</i> Seatde, Londra: University of Washington Press [Türkçe basım: <i>19. Yüzyılda Osmanlı Başkenti: Değişen İstanbul.</i> İstanbul: Tarih Vakfı Yurt Yayınları, 1996].</p>

    <p class="refence">Çizakça, Murat. 1985. “Incorporation of the Middle East into the European World Economy,” <i>Review,</i> VIII, 3, s. 353-378.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1987 (yeni basım). “Price History and the Bursa Silk Industry: A Study in Ottoman Industrial Decline, 1150-1650,” <i>The Ottoman Empire and the World Economy,</i> Huri İslamoğlu-İnan (ed), Cambridge, Paris: Cambridge University Press ve Maison des Sciences de l’Homme, s. 247-261.</p>

    <p class="refence">-(hazırlanıyor) “A Comparative History of Business and Finance: Islamic World and the West, from the Seventh Century to the Present”.</p>

    <p class="refence">Çulpan, Cevdet. 1975. <i>Türk Taş Köprüleri, Ortaçağdan Osmanlı Devri Sonuna Kadar,</i> Ankara: Türk Tarih Kurumu.</p>

    <p class="refence">Dall’Oglio Marino. 1978. “Transylvanian Rugs - Some Considerations and Opinions”, <i>Hah,</i> 1, 3, s. 274-277.</p>

    <p class="refence">Dalsar, Fahri. 1960. <i>Türk Sanayi ve Ticaret Tarihinde Bursa’da İpekçilik,</i> İstanbul: İstanbul Üniversitesi İktisat Fakültesi.</p>

    <p class="refence">Danişmend, İsmail Hami. 1971. <i>İzahlı Osmanlı Tarihi Kronolojisi,</i> 5 c., İstanbul: Türkiye Yayınevi.</p>

    <p class="refence">Davison, Roderic H. 1973. <i>Reform in the Ottoman Empire, 1856-1876,</i> New York: Gordian Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Defoe, Daniel. 1975. <i>Robinson Crusoe,</i> Münih, Zürich: Winkler Verlag.</p>

    <p class="refence">Delumeau, Jean. 1967, 1973. La <i>civilization de la Renaisance,</i> Paris: Arthaud.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1973. <i>Naissance et affirmation de la Réforme,</i> Paris: PUF.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1975. <i>Rome au XVI siècle,</i> Paris: Hachette.</p>

    <p class="refence">-1977. <i>Catholicism between Luther and Voltaire: a New View of the Counter-Reformation,</i> John Bossy (Giriş), Londra, Philadelphia: Burns &amp; Oates, Westminster Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Denel, Serim. 1982. <i>Batılılaşma Sürecinde İstanbul’da Tasarım ve Dış Mekanlarda Değişim ve Nedenleri,</i> Ankara: ODTÜ Mimarlık Fakültesi.</p>

    <p class="refence">Denny, Walter B. 1970. “A Sixteenth-Century Architectural Plan of Istanbul,” <i>Ars Orientalis,</i> 8, s. 49-63.</p>

    <p class="refence">Derin, Fahri. 1959. “Şeyhülislam Feyzullah Efendi’nin Nesebi Hakkında bir Risale,” <i>Tarih Dergisi,</i> X, 14, s. 97-103.</p>

    <p class="refence">Deringil, Selim. 1991. “Legitimacy Structures in the Ottoman State: The Reign of Abdülhamid II, 1876-1909”, <i>Internationa] Journal of Aliddle East Studies,</i> 23, 3, s. 345-359.</p>

    <p class="refence">Dermigny, Louis. 1964. <i>La Chine et l’Occident, Le commerce à Canton au XVIII siècle 1719-1833,</i> 3 c., Paris: S.E.V.P.E.N.</p>

    <p class="refence">Dernschwam, Hans. 1923. <i>Tagebuch einer Reise nach Konstantinopel und Kleinasien (1553-55),</i> Fugger-Archiv’deki aslından haz. Franz Babinger, Münih, Leipzig: Duncker und Humblot.</p>

    <p class="refence">Desmet-Grégoire, Helène. 1991. <i>Contribution au thème du et des cafés dans les Sociétés Proche-Orient, Cahiers de l’IREMAM,</i> Aix, Marseille: Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique.</p>

    <p class="refence">Dilger, Konrad. 1967. <i>Untersuchungen zur Geschichte des osmanischen Hofzeremoniells im 15. und 16. Jahrhundert,</i> Münih: Dr. Dr. Rudolf Trofenik.</p>

    <p class="refence">Doughty, Charles M. 1979 (yeni basım). <i>Travels in Arabia Deserta,</i> T. E. Lawrence (Giriş), New York: Dover Publications.</p>

    <p class="refence">Duben, Alan ve Behar, Cem. 1991. <i>Istanbul Households, Marriage, Family and Fertility 1880-1940,</i> Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Duby, Georges. 1973. <i>Hommes et structures du Moyen âge,</i> Paris, Den Haag: Mouton.</p>

    <p class="refence">Duby, Georges ve Balard, Michel (ed) 1991. <i>L’histoire médiévale en France, bilan et perpectives,</i> Paris: Société des historiens médiévistes de l’enseignement supérieur und Editions du Seuil.</p>

    <p class="refence">Duhani, Said Naum. 1982. <i>Eski İnsanlar, Eski Evler, XIX. Yüzyılda Beyoğlu’nun Sosyal Topografisi,</i> çev. Cemal Süreya, İstanbul: Türkiye Turing ve Otomobil Kurumu.</p>

    <p class="refence">Dumont, Paul. 1986. “Said Bey. The Everyday Life of an Istanbul Townsman at the Beginning of the XXth Century,” <i>Osmanistische Studien zur Wirtschafts- und Sozialgeschichte,</i> Hans Georg Majer (ed), Wiesbaden: Otto Harrasowitz, s. 1-16.</p>

    <p class="refence">Düzdağ, M. Ertuğrul. 1972. <i>Şeyhülislam Ebusuud Efendi Fetvaları Işığında 16. Asır Türk Hayatı,</i> İstanbul: Enderun.</p>

    <p class="refence">Eflakî, Ahmet. 1973. <i>Ariflerin Menkıbeleri,</i> çev. Tahsin Yazıcı, İstanbul: Hürriyet Yayınları.</p>

    <p class="refence">Eickhoff, Ekkehard, 21992. <i>Venedig, Wien und die Osmanen, Umbruch in Südosteuropa 1645-1700,</i> Stuttgart: Klett-Cotta.</p>

    <p class="refence">Eidam, Liliana. 1993. “Der Weg zum Professionalismus: Bulgarische Popularautoren 1878-1944”, <i>Südosteuropäische Popularliteratur im 19. und 20. Jahrhundert,</i> Klaus Roth (ed), Münchner Vereinigung ftir Volkskunde und Südosteuropa Gesellschaft, s. 97-110.</p>

    <p class="refence">Eldem, Sedad Hakkı. 1977. <i>Sa’dabad,</i> İstanbul.</p>

    <p class="refence">-t.y. <i>Türk Evi Plan Tipleri,</i> İstanbul: İstanbul Üniversitesi Mimarlık Fakültesi.</p>

    <p class="refence">Elvan Çelebi. 1984. <i>Menakıbu’l-kudsiyye fi menasıbi’l-ünsiyye, Baba İlyas-ı Horasanı ve sülâlesinin menkabevi tarihi,</i> İsmail Erünsal ve Ahmet Yaşar Ocak (ed), İstanbul: İstanbul Üniversitesi Edebiyat Fakültesi.</p>

    <p class="refence">Ennen, Edith. 1991. <i>Frauen im Mittelalter,</i> Münih: C. H. Beck.</p>

    <p class="refence">Erder, Leila. 1975. “The Measurement of Preindustrial Population Changes: The Ottoman Empire from the 15th to the 16th Century,” <i>Middle Eastern Studies, XI.</i> 3, s. 284-301.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1976. “The Making of Industrial Bursa: Economic Activity and Population in a Turkish City 1835-1975”, yayımlanmamış doktora tezi, Princeton University.</p>

    <p class="refence">Erdmann, Kurt. 1961. <i>Das anatolische Karavansaray des 13. Jahrhunderts,</i> Berlin: Mann.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1962. <i>Europa und der Orientteppich,</i> Berlin, Mainz: Florian Kupferberg.</p>

    <p class="refence">Ergenç, Özer, 1975. “1600-1615 Yıllan Arasında Ankara İktisadi Tarihine Ait Araştırmalar,” <i>Türkiye iktisat Tarihi Semineri, Metinler-Tartışmalar...</i> içinde, Osman Okyar ve Ünal Nalbantoğlu (ed), Ankara: Hacettepe Üniversitesi.</p>

    <p class="refence">Erim, Neşe, 1991. “Trade, Traders and the State in Eighteenth Century Erzurum,” <i>New Perspectives on Turkey,</i> 5-6, s. 123-150.</p>

    <p class="refence">Erlande-Brandenburg, Alain. 1980. La <i>Cathédrale</i>, Paris: Fayard.</p>

    <p class="refence">Erünsal, İsmail E. 1977-79. “Türk Edebiyatı Tarihine Kaynak Olarak Arşivlerin Değeri”, <i>Türkiyat Mecmuası,</i> XIX, s. 213-222.</p>

    <p class="refence">Evin, Ahmet Ö. 1983. <i>Origins and Development of the Turkish Novel,</i> Minneapolis: Bibliotheca Islamica.</p>

    <p class="refence">Evliya Çelebi. 1896/97-1938. <i>Seyahatname,</i> İstanbul: İkdam.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1957. <i>Im Reiche des Goldenen Apfels, Des türkischen Weltenbummlers</i></p>

    <p class="refence"><i>Evliya Çelebi denkwürdige Reise das Giaurenland und in die Stadt und Festung Wien anno 1665,</i> çev. ve açık. Richard F. Kreutel, Graz: Verlag Styria.</p>

    <p class="refence">[Evliya Çelebi] 1987. <i>Im Reiche des Goldenen Apfels ...,</i> çev. ve açık. Richard F. Kreutel, çoğaltan Erich Prokosch ve Karl Teply, Graz, Wien, Köln: Styria.</p>

    <p class="refence">Evliya Çelebi. 1988. <i>Evliya Çelebi in Diyarbekir,</i> çev. ve ed. Van Bruinessen ve diğ., Leiden: E. J. Brill.</p>

    <p class="refence">Evliya Çelebi. 1990. <i>Evliya Çelebi in Biüis, The Relevant Sections of the Saya-hatname,</i> çev. açık, giriş ve ed. Robert Dankoff, Leiden: E. J. Brill.</p>

    <p class="refence">[Evliya Çelebi], 1991. <i>The Intimate Life of an Ottoman Statesman, Melek Ahmed Paşa, 1588-1662 as Portrayed in Evliya Çelebi’s Book of Travels,</i> çev. ve Giriş Robert Dankoff ve Rhoads Murphey, Albany, NY: SUNY Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Eyice, Semavi. 1962/63. “İlk Osmanlı Devrinin Dini-İçtimai bir Müessesesi, Zaviyeler ve Zaviyeli Camiler”, <i>İstanbul Üniversitesi İktisat Fakültesi Mecmuası,</i> 23, 1-2, s. 3-80</p>

    <p class="refence">Farge, Ariette. 1992. <i>Dire et mal dire. L’opinion publique au XVIIle Siècle,</i> Paris: Seuil.</p>

    <p class="refence">Faroqhi, Suraiya. 1971. “Der Aufstand des Yahya ibn Yahya al-Suwaydi,” <i>Der Islam,</i> 47, s. 67-92.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1976. “The <i>Tekke</i> of Hacı Bektaş: Social Position and Economic Avtivities,” <i>International Journal of Middle East Studies, 7, s. 28-69.</i></p>

    <p class="refence">- 1978. “The Early History of the Balkan Fairs,” <i>Sudost-Forschungen,</i> XXXVII, s. 50-68.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1979. “The Life Story of an Urban Saint in the Ottoman Empire,” <i>Tarih Dergisi,</i> XXXII, s. 655-678, 1009-1018.</p>

    <p class="refence">-1980. “Textile Production in Rumeli and the Arab Provinces: Geographical Distribution and Internal Trade, 1560-1650,” <i>Osmanlı Araştırmaları,</i> 1, s. 61-83.</p>

    <p class="refence">-1981a. “Seyyid Gazi Revisited: The Foundation as Seen through Sixteenth and Seventeenth-Century Documents,” <i>Turcica,</i> XIII. s. 90-122.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1981b. <i>Der Bektaschi-Orden in Anatolien, vom späten fünfzehnten Jahrhundert bis 1826,</i> Wien: Verlag des Instituts für Orientalistik.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1984a. <i>Towns and Townsmen of Ottoman Anatolia, Trade, Crafts and Food Production in an Urban Setting,</i> Cambridge: Cambridge University Press [Türkçe basım: <i>Osmanlı’da Kentler ve Kentliler,</i> İstanbul: Tarih Vakfı Yurt Yayınları, 1994 (2.b)].</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1984b. “Mohair Manufacture and Mohair Workshops in Seventeenth</p>

    <p class="refence">Century Ankara,” <i>İstanbul Üniversitesi iktisat Fakültesi Mecmuası,</i> 41, 1-4, <i>Ord. Prof Ömer Lütfi Barkan’a Armağan, s.</i> 211-236.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1985/86. “Stadt-Landbeziehungen und die regionale Organisation im osmanischen Anatolien des 16.-17. Jarhrlunderts,” <i>Jahrbuch zur Geschichte und Gesellschaft des Vorderen und Mittleren Orients,</i> Berlin: Edition Pa-rabolis, s. 137-163.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1986a. “Coffee and Spices: Official Ottoman Reactions to Venetian-Egyptian Trade in the Later Sixteenth Century,” <i>Wiener Zeitschrift fur die Kunde des Morgenlandes.</i> 76, s. 87-93.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1986b. “Town Officials, tımar-holders and Taxation: The Late Sixteenth Century Crisis as Seen from Çorum,” <i>Turcica,</i> XVIII, s. 53-82.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1987. <i>Men of Modest Substance, House Owners and House Property in Seventeenth-century Ankara and Kayseri,</i> Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1988. “Agricultural Crisis and the Art of Flute-Playing: The Worldly Affairs of the Mevlevi Dervishes (1595-1652),” <i>Turcica,</i> XX, s. 43-70.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1990. <i>Herrscher über Mekka, die Geschichte der Pilgerfahrt,</i> Münih, Zürich: Artemis [Türkçe basım: <i>Hacılar ve Sultanlar,</i> İstanbul: Tarih Vakfı Yurt Yayınları, 1995].</p>

    <p class="refence">-1991. “Black Slaves and Freedmen Celebrating (Aydın, 1576),” <i>Turcica, XXI-XXIII, s. 205-215.</i></p>

    <p class="refence">- 1992a. “Political Activity among Ottoman Taxpayers and the Problem of Sultanic Legitimation, 1570-1650,” <i>Journal of the Economic and Social History of the Orient,</i> XXXV, s. 1-39.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1992b. “Red Sea Trade and Communications as Observed by Evliya Çelebi, 1671-72,” <i>New Perspectives on Turkey,</i> 5-6 s. 87-106.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1994. “The Life and Death of Oudaws in Çorum,” <i>Armağan Festschrift Andreas Tietze,</i> Ingeborg Baldauf ve Suraiya Faroqhi (ed), Prag: Orientalisches Institut der Karls-Üniversität.</p>

    <p class="refence">Febvre, Lucien. 1977. <i>Life in Renaissance France,</i> çev. Marian Rothstein, Cambridge MA: Harvard University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Fekete, Lajos. 1960. “Das Heim eines türkischen herrn in der Provinz im XVI Jahrhundert,” <i>Studia Historica Acedemiae Scientiarum Hungaricae,</i> 29, 5, s. 69-93.</p>

    <p class="refence">[Feyzullah Efendi] Ahmed Türek ve Çetin Derin (çev.) 1969/70. “Feyzullah Efendi’nin Kendi Kaleminden Hal Tercümesi,” <i>Tarih Dergisi,</i> 23, s. 205-218; 24, s. 69-93</p>

    <p class="refence">Findley, Carter V. 1980. <i>Bureaucratic Reform in the Ottoman Empire, the Sublime Porte 1789-1922,</i> Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1989. <i>Ottoman Civil Officialdom, A Social History,</i> Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press [Türkçe Basım: <i>Kalemiyeden Mülkiyeye, Osmanlı Memurlarının Toplumsal Tarihi,</i> İstanbul: Tarih Vakfı Yurt Yayınları, 1996],</p>

    <p class="refence">Finkel, Caroline. 1988. <i>The Administration of Warfare: the Ottoman Military Campaigns in Hungary, 1593-1606, 2</i> c., Viyana: VWG0.</p>

    <p class="refence">Fleischer, Cornell H. 1986. <i>Bureaucrat and Intellectual in the Ottoman Empire, the Historian Mustafa Alî, 1541-1600,</i> Princeton: University Press [Türkçe basım: <i>Mustafa Alî, Bir Osmanlı Aydın ve Bürokratı,</i> İstanbul: Tarih Vakfı Yurt Yayınları, 1996].</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1990. “From Şehzade Korkud to Mustafa Alî: Cultural Origins of the Ottoman Nasîhatname,” <i>Congress on the Economic and Social History of Turkey,</i> Heath Lowry ve Ralph Hattox (ed), İstanbul: İSİS Press, s. 67-78.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1992. “The Lawgiver as Messiah: The Making of the Imperial Image in the Reign of Süleyman,” <i>Soliman le Magnitique et son temps, Actes du Colloque de Paris, Galeries Nationales du Grand Palais, 7-10 mars 1990,</i> Paris: La Documentation Française, s. 159-178.</p>

    <p class="refence">Flemming, Barbara. 1987. “Sahib-kiran und Mahdi: Türkische Endzeiterwartungen im ersten Jahrzehnt der Regierung Süleymans,” <i>Between the Danube and the Caucasus,</i> Györgi Kara (ed), Budapest: Verlag der Akademie der Wissenschaften, s. 43-62.</p>

    <p class="refence">Foss, Clive. 1979. <i>Ephesus after Antiquity: A late Antique, Byzantine and Turkish City,</i> Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Fukasawa, Katsumi. 1987. <i>Toilerie et commerce du Levant, d’Alep à Marseille,</i> Paris: Editions du CNRS.</p>

    <p class="refence">Gaube, Heinz ve Wirth, Eugen. 1984. <i>Aleppo, Historische und geographische Beiträge zur baulichen Gestaltung, zur sozialen Organisation und zur wirtschaftlichen Dynamik einer vorderasiatishen Fernhandelsmetropole,</i> 2 c., Wiesbaden: Dr. Ludwig Rcichert.</p>

    <p class="refence">Gdoura, Wahid, 1985. <i>Le début de L’imprimerie arabe à Istanbul et en Syrie: Evolution de l’environnement culturel, 1706-1787,</i> Tunis: Institut Supérieur de Documentation.</p>

    <p class="refence">Genç, Mehmed. 1984. “Osmanlı Ekonomisi ve Savaş,” <i>Yapıt,</i> 49, 4, s. 52-61; 50, 5, s. 86-93.</p>

    <p class="refence">Gerber, Haim. 1980, “Social and Economic Positon of Women in an Ottoman City, Bursa 1600-1700,” <i>International Journal of Middle East Studies,</i> 12, s. 231-244.</p>

    <p class="refence">-1988. <i>Economy and Society in an Ottoman City: Bursa, 1600-1700, Jerusalem:</i> The Hebrew University.</p>

    <p class="refence">Gibb, E. J. W. 1900-05. Edward G. Browne (ed), <i>A History of Ottoman Poetry,</i> 4 c., Londra: Luzav &amp; Co.</p>

    <p class="refence">Ginzburg, Carlo, 1982. <i>The Cheese and the Worms, the Cosmos of a Sixteenth-century Miller,</i> çev. John ve Anne Tedeschi, Harmondsworth: Penguin Books.</p>

    <p class="refence">Gombrich, Ernst H. 1984. <i>Aby Warburg, eine intellektuelle Biographie,</i> Frankfurt a. M.: Suhrkamp.</p>

    <p class="refence">Gonzalez de Clavijo, Ruy. 1970 (yeni basım). <i>Narrative of the Embassy of Ruy Gonzalez de Clavijo to the Court of Timur in Samarcand, AD 1403-1406 ..., çev.</i> ve notlar Clements R. Markham, New York: Franklin.</p>

    <p class="refence">Goodwin, Godfrey. 1971. <i>A History of Ottoman Architecture,</i> Londra: Thames and Hudson.</p>

    <p class="refence">Goubert, Pierre. 1966. <i>Louis XIV et vingt millions de Français,</i> Paris: Fayard.</p>

    <p class="refence">Göçck, Fatma Müge. 1987. <i>East Encounters West, France and the Ottoman</i></p>

    <p class="refence"><i>Empire in the Eighteenth Century,</i> Oxford, New York: Oxford University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Gökyay, Orhan Şaik. 1985. “Sohbetname,” <i>Tarih ve Toplum,</i> 3, s. 128-136.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1986. “Bir Saltanat Düğünü,” <i>Topkapı Sarayı Yıllığı,</i> 1, s. 21-56.</p>

    <p class="refence">Gölpınarlı, Abdülbaki. 1931. <i>Melamîlik</i> ve <i>Melamîler,</i> İstanbul: Devlet Matbaası.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1953. <i>Mevlânâ’dan Sonra Mevlevîlik,</i> İstanbul: İnkilap Kitabevi.</p>

    <p class="refence">-(ed) 1958. <i>Manakıb-ı Hacı Bek taş-1 Veli, Vilâyet-Nâme,</i> İstanbul: İnkilap Kitabevi.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1959. <i>Mevlâna Celâleddin, Hayatı, Felsefesi, Eserleri, Eserlerinden Seçmeler,</i> İstanbul: İnkilap.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1963. <i>Alevî-Bektaşî Nefesleri,</i> İstanbul: Remzi.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1967. <i>Mevtana Müzesi Yazmalar Kataloğu,</i> 3 c., Ankara: Milli Eğitim Bakanlığı.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1973. <i>Hurufilik Metinleri Kataloğu,</i> Ankara: Türk Tarih Kurumu.</p>

    <p class="refence">- ve Boratav, Pertev Naili. 1991 (yeni basım). <i>Pir Sultan Abdal,</i> İstanbul: Der Yayınları.</p>

    <p class="refence">Grabar, Oleg. 1973. <i>The Formation of Islamic Art,</i> New Haven, Londra: Yale University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Gran, Peter. 1970. <i>Islamic Roots of Capitalism, Egypt, 1760-1840,</i> Austin, London: University of Texas Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Grisworld, William. 1983. <i>The Great Anatolian Rebellion 1000-1020/1591-1611,</i> Berlin: Klaus Schwarz Verlag.</p>

    <p class="refence">de Groot, Alexander H. 1978. <i>The Ottoman Empire and the Dutch Republic, A History of the Earliest Diplomatic Relations 1610-1630,</i> Leiden, Istanbul: Nederlands Instituut voor het Nabije Ooten.</p>

    <p class="refence">Groß, Erich. 1927. <i>Das Vilayet-name des Hağğî Bektasch, Ein türkisches Derwisch-Evangelium,</i> Leipzig: Mayer und Müller.</p>

    <p class="refence">Güçer, Lütfi. 1964. <i>XVI-XVII Asırlarda Osmanlı İmparatorluğunda Hububat Meselesi ve Hububattan Alınan Vergiler,</i> İstanbul: İstanbul Üniversitesi İktisat Fakültesi.</p>

    <p class="refence">Haarmann, Ulrich. 1976. “Evliya Çelebis Bericht über die Altertümer von Gize,” <i>Turcica,</i> VIII., 1, s. 157-230.</p>

    <p class="refence">Hafız Hüseyin Ayvansarayî. 1864-65. <i>Hadikatü’I-cevami,</i> İstanbul: Matbaa-yı Amire.</p>

    <p class="refence">Hammer, Joseph von. 1834. <i>Geshichte des Osmanischen Reiches, Größtenteils aus bisher unbenutzten Handshrifien und Archiven,</i> 4 c., Pesth: C. A. Hartleben.</p>

    <p class="refence">Hanna, Nelly. 1991. <i>Habiter au Caire, La maison moyenne et scs habitants aux XVIle et aux XVIIle siècles,</i> Kairo: Institut français d’Archéologie Orientale du Caire.</p>

    <p class="refence">Hasluck, E W. 1929. <i>Christianity and Islam under the Sultans,</i> Margaret Hasluck (ed), Oxford.</p>

    <p class="refence">Hattox, Ralph. 1988. <i>Coffee and Coffeehouses, The Origins of a Social Beverage in the Medieval Near East,</i> Seattle, Londra: Washington University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Helmecke, Gisela. 1993. “Die Stickereien,” <i>Reich an Samt und Seide, Osmanische Gewebe und Stickereien,</i> Christian Erber (ed), Bremen: Edition Temmen, s. 25-33.</p>

    <p class="refence">Hess, Andrew. 1978. <i>The Forgotten Frontier, A History of the Sixteenth Century Ibero-African Frontier,</i> Chicago, Londra: University of Chicago Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Hinz, Walther. 1955. “Islamische Maße und Gewichte umgerechnet ins metrische System,” <i>Handbuch der Orientalistik,</i> Berthold Spuler (ed), c. 1, 1, Leiden: E. J. Brill.</p>

    <p class="refence">Hobsbawm, E. J. 1990 <i>Echoes of the Marseillaise, Two Centuries Look Back on the French Revolution,</i> Londra, New York: Verso Books.</p>

    <p class="refence">Hodgson, Marshall G. S. 1974. <i>The Venture of Islam, Conscience and History in a World Civilization,</i> Chicago, Londra: Chicago University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Holbrook, Victoria Rowe. 1992. “Originality and Ottoman Poetics: In the Wilderness of the New,” <i>Journal of the American Oriental Society,</i> 112, 3, s. 440-454.</p>

    <p class="refence">Hugo, Victor. 1972 (yeni basım). <i>Notre Dame de Paris,</i> Giriş yazısı Jean Maurel, Paris: Librairie Générale.</p>

    <p class="refence">Hüttl, Ludwig. 1976. <i>Max Emanuel, Der Blaue Kuríust 1679-1726, Eine Politische Biographie,</i> Münih: Süddeutscher Verlag.</p>

    <p class="refence">Ibn Battuta. 1854. <i>Voyages d’Ibn Batoutah,</i> çev. ve ed. C. Défrémery ve B. R. Sanguinetti, 4 c., Paris: Librairie Impériale.</p>

    <p class="refence">Issawi, Charles. 1980. <i>The Economic History of Turkey 1800-1914,</i> Chicago: Chicago University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">İhsanoğlu, Ekmeleddin. 1987. “Some Critical Notes on the Introduction of Modern Sciences to the Ottoman State and the Relation between Science and Religion up to the End of the Nineteenth Century,” <i>Comité International d’Etudes pré-ottomanes et Ottomanes, VI Symposium, Cambridge lst-2th July 1984,</i> Jean Louis Bacqué-Grammont ve Emeri van Donzel (ed), Istanbul, Paris, Leiden: The Divit Press, s. 235-252.</p>

    <p class="refence">İmamoğlu, Vacit. 1992. <i>Geleneksel Kayseri Evleri.,</i> Ankara: Halkbank.</p>

    <p class="refence">İnalcık, Halil. 1948. “Osmanlı-Rus Rekabetinin Menşei ve Don-Volga Kanalı Teşebbüsü, 1569,” <i>Belleten</i> XII, s. 349-402.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1953. “Stefan Duşan’dan Osmanlı İmparatorluğuna: XV. Asırda Hıristiyan Sipahiler ve Menşeleri,” <i>Fuad Köprülü Armağan /Mélanges Fuad Köprülü,</i> İstanbul: AÜ Dil ve Tarih-Coğrafya Fakültesi, s. 207-248.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1954a. <i>Hicri 835 Tarihli Sûret-i Defter-i Sancak-i Arvanid,</i> Ankara: Türk Tarih Kurumu.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1954b. “Ottoman Methods of Conquest,” <i>Studia Islamica,</i> III, s. 103-129.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1965. “Adâletnâmeler,” <i>Belgeler,</i> II, 3-4, s. 42-149.</p>

    <p class="refence">—- 1969. “Capital Formation in the Ottoman Empire,” <i>The Journal of Economic History,</i> XIX, s. 97-140.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1970. “The Policy of Mehmed II toward the Greek Population of Istanbul and the Byzantine Buildings of the City,” <i>Dumbarton Oaks Papers,</i> 23, s. 213-249.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1973. <i>The Ottoman Empire, the Classical Age. 1300-1600,</i> Londra: Weidenfeld &amp; Nicholson.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1974. “The Socio-Political Effects of the Diffusion of Fire-Arms in the Middle East,” <i>War, Technology and Society in the Middle East,</i> Bela Kiraly, Londra: Oxford University Press, s. 195-217.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1979/80. “Osmanlı Pamuklu Pazarı, Hindistan ve İngiltere: Pazar Rekabetinde Emek Maliyetinin Rolü,” <i>ODTÜ Gelişme Dergisi,</i> özel sayı, <i>Türkiye İktisat Tarihi Üzerine Araştırmalar,</i> II, s. 1-66.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1980. “Military and Fiscal Transformation in the Ottoman Empire, 1600-1700,” <i>Archivum Ottomanicum, VL,</i> s. 283-337.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1983. “Introduction to Ottoman Metrology,” <i>Turcica,</i> XV, s. 311-348.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1985 (yeni basım). “The Emergence of Big Farms, <i>Çiftliks</i>: State, Landlords and Tenants,” <i>Studies in Ottoman Social and Economic History,</i> Londra: Variorum, No. VIII.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1993. “Dervish and Sultan: Analysis of the Otman Baba Vilayetnamesi,” <i>Manifestations of Sainthood in Islam,</i> Grace Martin Smith ve Carl W. Ernst (ed), İstanbul: İSİS, s. 209-224.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1994. “How to read “Ashık Pasha-Zâde’s history” <i>Studies in Ottoman History in Honour of Professor V. L. Ménage,</i> Colin Heywood ve Colin Imber (ed), İstanbul İSİS Press, s. 139-156.</p>

    <p class="refence">İslamoğlu, Huri ve Faroqhi, Suraiya. 1979. “Crop Patterns and Agricultural Production Trends in Sixteenth Century Anatolia,” <i>Review,</i> II, 3, s. 401-436.</p>

    <p class="refence">İslamoğlu-İnan, Huri. 1987. “Introduction: Oriental Despotism in World System Perspective,” <i>The Ottoman State and the World Economy</i>, Huri ts-lamoğlu-İnan (ed), Cambridge ve Paris: Cambridge University Press ve Ma-ison des sciences de l’Homme, s. 1-26.</p>

    <p class="refence">İz, Fahir ve Kut, Günay. 1985. “XV. Yüzyılda Nazım,” <i>Başlangıcından Günümüze Kadar Büyük Türk Klâsikleri, Tarih-Antoloji-Ansiklopedi,</i> İstanbul: Ötüken ve Söğüt, c. 2, s. 109-260.</p>

    <p class="refence">Jacob, Georg. 1904. “Traditionen über Bekri Mustafa Aga,” <i>Revue orientale</i> s. 1-7.</p>

    <p class="refence">Jansky, Herbert. 1964. “Zeitgeschichtliches in den Liedern des Bektaşî-Dichters Pir Sultan Abdal,” <i>Der İslam,</i> 39. 130-142.</p>

    <p class="refence">Jaubert, Pierre Amedée. 1821. <i>Voyage en Armenie et en Perse dans les années 1805 et 1806,</i> Paris: Pélicier und Nepveu.</p>

    <p class="refence">Jennings, Ronald C. 1973. “Loan and Credit in Early 17th Century Ottoman Judicial Records: The Sharia Court of Anatolian Kayseri,” <i>Journal of the Economic and Social History of the Orient,</i> XVI, II-III, s. 165-216.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1975. “Women in Early 17th Century Ottoman Judicial Records - The</p>

    <p class="refence">Sharia Court of Anatolian Kayseri,” <i>Journal of the Economic and Social History of the Orient,</i> XVIII. 1. s. 53-114.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1993. <i>Christians and Muslims in Ottoman Cyprus and the Mediterranean World, 1571-1640,</i> New York: New York University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Kafadar, Cemal. 1986. “A Death in Venice, 1575: Anatolian Muslim Merchants Trading in the Serenissima,” <i>Journal of Turkish Studies,</i> 10, <i>Raiyyet Rüsumu, Essays presented to Halil İnalcık on his Seventieth Birthday by his Colleagues and Students, s.</i> 191-218.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1989. “Self and Others: The Diary of a Dervish in seventeenth-century Istanbul and First-person Narratives in Ottoman Literature,” <i>Studia Islami-ca,</i> LXIX, s. 121-150.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1992. “Mütereddit Bir Mutasavvıf: Üsküplü Asiye Hatun’un Rüya Defteri 1641-43,” <i>Topkapı Sarayı Yıllığı,</i> 5, s. 168-222.</p>

    <p class="refence">-(hazırlanıyor) “At the Edge of the World of Islam: The Construction of the Ottoman State.”</p>

    <p class="refence">Kahane, Henry; Kahane, Renée; Tietze, Andreas. 1958. <i>The Lingua Franca in the Levant, Turkish Nautical Terms of Italian and Greek Origin,</i> Urbana: University of Illinois Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Kappert, Petra. 1976. <i>Die Osmanischen Prinzen und ihre Residenz Amasya im 15. und 16. Jahrhundert,</i> Istanbul: Nederlands Historisch-Archeologisch Intituut.</p>

    <p class="refence">Karamustafa, Ahmet T. <i>God’s Unruly Friends, Dervish Groups in the Islamic Later Middle Period,</i> 1200-1550, Salt Lake City: University of Utah Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Kâtib Çelebi. 1145/1732. <i>Cihân-numâ,</i> İstanbul: İbrahim Müteferrika.</p>

    <p class="refence">Kechagioglou, Giorgos. 1993. “Neugriechische belletristische Volkbücher, Vorüberlegungen zu bibliographischen sowie literatür- und gattungsgeschichtlichen Fragen,” <i>Südosteuropäische Popularliteratur im 19. und 20. Jahrhundert,</i> Klaus Roth (ed), Münchner Vereinigung für Volkskunde und Südosteuropa-Gesellschaft, s. 55-66.</p>

    <p class="refence">Kemal Tahir. 1969. <i>Kurt Kanunu,</i> Ankara: Bilgi Yayınevi.</p>

    <p class="refence">Kerman, Zeynep. 1978. <i>1862-1910 Yılları Arasında Victor Hugo’dan Türkçeye Yapılan Tercümeler Üzerinde bir Araştırma,</i> İstanbul: İ.Ü. Edebiyat Fakültesi.</p>

    <p class="refence">Kevonian, Kéram. 1975. “Marchands arméniens au XVIIe siècle. A Propos d’un livre arménien publié à Amsterdam en 1699,” <i>Cahiers du Monde Russe et Soviétique,</i> XVI, s. 199-244.</p>

    <p class="refence">Khachikian, Levon, 1967. “Le registre d’un marchand arménien en Perse, en Inde et au Tibet,” <i>Annales, Economies Sociétés Civilizations,</i> 22, s. 231-278.</p>

    <p class="refence">Kiel, Machiel. 1985. <i>Art and Society of Bulgaria in the Turkish Period, A Sketch of the Economic, Juridical and Artistic Preconditions of Bulgarian Post-Byzantine Art and its Place in the Development of the Art of the Christian Balkans, 1360/70-1700,</i> Assen, Maastricht: Van Gorcum.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1990. <i>Studies on the Ottoman Architecture of the Balkans,</i> Londra: Variorum.</p>

    <p class="refence">King, Donald. 1983. “The Carpets in the Exhibition,” <i>The Eastern Carpet in the Western World, from the 15th to the 17th Century,</i> Donald King ve David Sylvester (ed), Londra: Arts Council of Great Britain, s. 24-32.</p>

    <p class="refence">Kissling, Hans-Joachim. 1945-49. “Eine bektasitishe Version der Legende von den zwei Erzsündern,” <i>Zeitschrift der Deutschen Morgenländischen Gesellschaft, 99, s. 181-201.</i></p>

    <p class="refence">- 1953. “Aus der Geschichte des Chalvetijje-Ordens,” <i>Zeitzchrift der Deutschen Morgenländischen Gesellschaft, 103, s. 233-289.</i></p>

    <p class="refence">- 1957. “Zur Geschichte der Rausch-und Genussgifte im Osmanischen Reiche,” <i>Südost-Forschungen,</i> XVI, s. 342-356.</p>

    <p class="refence">Koç, Hawa. 1993. “Bir Belge Işığında İbrahim Edhem Paşa ve Ailesi Hakkında Hatırlamalar,” <i>Osman Hamdi Bey ve Dönemi, 17 18 Aralık 1992,</i> Zeynep Roııa (ed), İstanbul: Tarih Vakfı Yurt Yayınları, s. 27-40.</p>

    <p class="refence">Koçu, Reşat Ekrem. 1969. <i>Türk Giyim Kuşam</i> ve <i>Süslenme Sözlüğü,</i> Ankara: Sümerbank.</p>

    <p class="refence">Köhler, Georg ve Villion-Lcchncr, Alice. 1988. <i>Die Schöne Kunst der Verschwendung, Fest und Feuerwerk in der europäischen Geschichte,</i> Zürich, Münih: Artemis.</p>

    <p class="refence">Konyalı, İbrahim Hakkı. 1964. <i>Abideleri ve Kitabeleri ile Konya Tarihi,</i> Konya: Yeni Kitap Basımevi.</p>

    <p class="refence">Köprülü, M. Fuad. 1935. <i>Türk Halk Edebiyatı Ansiklopedisi, Ortaçağ ve Yeniçağ Türklerinin Halk Kültürü Üzerine Coğrafya, Etnoğrafya, Etnoloji, Tarih ve Edebiyat Lügati,</i> No: 1 Aba-Abdal Musa, İstanbul.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1966. <i>Edebiyat Araştırmaları,</i> Ankara: Türk Tarih Kurumu.</p>

    <p class="refence">Köprülüzade Mehmed Fuad. 1929. <i>Influence du chamanisme turco-mongol sur les ordres mystiques musulmans,</i> İstanbul: İstanbul Darülfünunu Türkiyat Enstitüsü.</p>

    <p class="refence">Krautel, Richard. 1971. “Neues zur Evliyâ-Çelebi-Forschung,” <i>Der Islam,</i> 48, s. 269-279.</p>

    <p class="refence">Kreiser, Klaus. 1975. <i>Edirne im 17. Jahrhundert nach Evliya Çelebi, Ein Beitrag zur kenntnis der Osmanischen stadt,</i> Freiburg i. Br.: Klaus Schwarz Verlag.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1978. “‘...dan die Türckhen leiden khain Menschen Pildnuss’ über die Praxis des ‘Bilderverbots’ bei den Osmanen,” <i>Fifth Internationl Congress of Turkish Art,</i> G. Feher (ed), Budapeşte: Verlag der Ungarischen Akademie der Wissenschaften, s. 549-556.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1979. “Über den Kernraum des Osmanischen Reichs,” <i>Die Türkei in Europa</i> ..., Klaus-Detlev Grothusen (ed), Göttingen: Vandenhoeck und Ruprecht, s. 53-63.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1986. “Icareteyn: Zur ‘Doppelten Miete’ im Osmanischen Stiftungswesen,” <i>Journal of Turkish Studies,</i> 10, <i>Raiyyet Rüsûmu, Essays presented to Halil İnalcık on his Seventieth Birthday by his Colleagues and Students,</i> s. 219-226.</p>

    <p class="refence">Kunt, Metin. 1974. “Ethnic-regional (cins) Solidarity in the Seventeenth Century Ottoman Establishment,” <i>International Journal for Middle East Studies, V,</i> s. 2133-239.</p>

    <p class="refence">-1981. <i>Bir Osmanlı Valisinin Gelir-Gideri Diyarbekir, 1670-71,</i> İstanbul: Boğaziçi Üniversitesi Yayınları.</p>

    <p class="refence">Kuran, Aptullah. 1987. <i>Sinan, the Grand Old Master of Ottoman Architecture,</i> Washington, İstanbul: Institute of Turkish Studies ve Ada Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Kut, Turgut. 1944. “Terekelerde Çıkan Kitapların Matbu Satış Defterleri,” <i>Müteferrika</i> 2, s. 3-24.</p>

    <p class="refence">Küçükömer, İdris. 1969. <i>Düzenin Yabancılaşması Batılaşma,</i> İstanbul: Ant.</p>

    <p class="refence">Kütükoğlu, Mübahat. 1978. “1009/1600 Tarihli Narh Defterine Göre İstanbul’da Çeşitli Eşya ve Hizmet Fiatları,” <i>Tarih Enstitüsü Dergisi,</i> 9, s. 1-86.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1983. <i>Osmanlılarda Narh Müessesesi ve 1640 Tarihli Narh Defteri,</i> İstanbul: Enderun Kitapevi.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1986. “Cevdet Paşa ve Aile İçi Münasebetleri,” <i>Ahmed Cevdet Paşa Semineri,</i> Mübahat Kütükoğlu (ed), İstanbul: I.Ü. Edebiyat Fakültesi, s. 199-222<b>.</b></p>

    <p class="refence">Labib, Subhi Y. <i>Handelsgeschichte Agyptens im Spatmittelalter, 1171-1517,</i> Vierteljahresschrift fur Sozial- und Wirtschaftgeschichte, 46, Wiesbaden: Franz Steiner GmbH, 1965.</p>

    <p class="refence">Lane, Frederick. 1968. “The Mediterranean Spice Trade: Further Evidence of its Revival in the Sixteenth Century,” <i>Crisis and Change in the Venetian Economy in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries,</i> Brian Pullan (ed), Londra: Methuen, s. 47-58.</p>

    <p class="refence">Lapidus, Ira. 1969. “Muslim Cities and Islamic Societies,” <i>Middle Eastern Cities,</i> Ira Lapidus (ed), Berkeley, Los Angeles: University of California Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Laqueur, Hans-Peter. 1993. <i>Osmanische Friedhöfe und Grabsteine in Istanbul,</i> Tübingen: Ernst Wasmuth Verlag.</p>

    <p class="refence">Le Roy Ladurie, Emmanuel. 1975. <i>Montaillou, village occitan de 1294 à 1324,</i> Paris: Gallimard.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1977. “Les Masses profondes: la paysannerie,” <i>Histoire économique et sociale de la France,</i> c. 1, 2, s. 483-865.</p>

    <p class="refence">Lerner, Daniel. 1958. <i>The Passing of Traditional Society, Glencoe III: The Free Press.</i></p>

    <p class="refence">Lewis, Bernard. 1968. <i>The Emergence of Modern Turkey,</i> Londra: Oxford University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1982. <i>The Muslim Discovery of Europe,</i> New York, Londra: Norton.</p>

    <p class="refence">Lindner, Rudi. 1983. <i>Nomads and Ottomans in Medieval Anatolia,</i> Bloomington/Indiana: Indiana University.</p>

    <p class="refence">Lowry, Heath. 1980. “Changes in Fifteenth-Century Ottoman Peasant Taxation: the Case Study of Radilofo, Radolibos,” <i>Continuity and Change in Late Bayzantine and Early Ottoman Society,</i> Anthony Bryer ve Heath Lowry (ed), Birmingham, Washington: The University of Birmingham ve Dumbarton Oaks, s. 23-38.</p>

    <p class="refence">Mackenzie, Mollie. 1992. <i>Turkish Athens, The Forgotten Centuries 1456-1832,</i> Reading: Ithaca Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Majer, Hans Georg. 1990. “Zur Ikonographie der osmanischen Sultane,” <i>Das Bildnis in derkunst des Orients,</i> Martin Kraatz ve diğ. (ed), Stuttgart: Franz Steiner.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1992. “The Harem of Mustafa II, 1695-1703,” <i>Osmanlı Araştırmaları,</i> XII, s. 431-444.</p>

    <p class="refence">Mandaville, Jon E. 1979. “Usurious Piety: The Cash waqf Controversy in the Ottoman Empire,” <i>International Journal of Middle East Studies,</i> X, 3, s. 289-308.</p>

    <p class="refence">Mantran, Robert. 1962. <i>Istanbul dans la seconde moitié du dix-septiéme siècle, Essai d’histoire institutionelle, économique et sociale,</i> Istanbul, Paris: Institut Français d’Archéologie d’Istanbul ve Andrien Maisonneuve.</p>

    <p class="refence">Marcus, Abraham. 1989. <i>The Middle East on the Eve of Modernity, Aleppo in the Eighteenth Century,</i> New York: Columbia-University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Mardin, Şerif. 1962. <i>The Genesis of Young Ottoman Thought, a Study in the Modernization of Turkish Political Ideas,</i> Princeton: Princeton University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1974. “Super Westernization in Urban Life in the Ottoman Empire in the Last Quarter of the Nineteenth Century,” <i>Turkey, Geographic and Social Perspectives,</i> Peter Benedict, Erol Tümertekin ve Fatma Mansur (ed), Leiden: E. J. Brill, s. 403-446.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1983. <i>Jön Türklerin Siyasi Fikirleri 1895-1908,</i> İstanbul: İletişim.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1988. “Freedom in a Ottoman Perspective,” <i>State, Democracy and the Military, Turkey in the 1980s,</i> Metin Heper ve Ahmet Evin (ed), Berlin, New York: Walter de Gruyter, s. 23-36.</p>

    <p class="refence">Masters, Bruce. 1988. <i>The Origins of Western Economic Dominance in the Middle East, Mercantilism and the Islamic Economy in Aleppo, 1600-1750,</i> New York: New York University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Maury, Bernard; Raymond, André; Revault, Jacques; Zakarya, Mona. 1983. <i>Palais et maisons du Caire,</i> c. 2, <i>Epoque ottomane, XVIe-XVIIIe siècles,</i> Paris: Editions du CRNS.</p>

    <p class="refence">McGowan, Bruce. 1969. “Food Supply and Taxation on the Middle Danube, 1568-1579,” <i>Archivum Ottomanicum,</i> 1, s. 139-196.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1981. <i>Economic Life in Ottoman Europe, Taxation, Trade and the Struggle for Land, 1600-1800,</i> Cambridge, Paris: Cambridge Press ve Maison des Sciences de l’Homme.</p>

    <p class="refence">McNeill, Wiliam H. 1974. <i>Venice, the Hinge of Europe 1081-1797,</i> Chicago, Londra: Chicago University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Mehmed Efendi. 1981. <i>Le paradis des infidèles, Un ambassadeur ottoman en France sous la Régence,</i> Paris: François Maspéro/La Découverte.</p>

    <p class="refence">Mélikoff, Irène. 1975. “Le problème <i>kızılbaş,” Turcica,</i> VI. s. 49-67.</p>

    <p class="refence">Melman, Billie. 1992. <i>Women’s Orients, English Women and the Middle East, 1718-1918, Sexuality, Religion and Work,</i> Londra: Macmillan.</p>

    <p class="refence">Mikes, Kelemen. 1978. <i>Briefe aus der Türkei,</i> çev. ve ed. Gyula Zathureczky, Sybille Baronin Manteuffel-Szöege, Thomas von Boyay, Antal Szerb, Graz, Wien, Köln: Styria.</p>

    <p class="refence">Miller, Barnette. 1970 (yeni basım). <i>Beyond the Sublime Porte: The Grand Seraglio of Stambul,</i> Halide Edip’in önsözüyle, New York: AMS.</p>

    <p class="refence">Mills, John. 1978. “Two Aspects of the Small Pattern Holbein Carpets,” <i>Hall,</i> 1, 4, s. 324-329.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1983. “The Coming of the Carpet to the West,” <i>The Eastern Carpet in the Western World, from the 15th to the 17th Century,</i> Donald King ve David Sylvester (ed), Londra: Arts Council of Great Britain, s. 11-23.</p>

    <p class="refence">Misailidis, Evangelinos. 1986. <i>Seyreyle Dünyayı Temaşa-i Dünya ve Cefakâr-u Cefakeş,</i> Robert Anhegger ve Vedat Günyol (ed), İstanbul: Cem Yayınevi.</p>

    <p class="refence">Montagu, Lady Mary Wortley. 1993. <i>Turkish Embassy Letters,</i> M. Jack ve A. Desai (ed), Londra: William Pickering &amp; Chattko.</p>

    <p class="refence">Montesqieu, Charles-Louis de. 1986. <i>Perserbricfc</i>, Frankfurt a. M.: Insel.</p>

    <p class="refence">Moran, Berna. 1991. <i>Türk Romanına Eleştirel Bir Bakış,</i> c. 1, <i>Ahmet Mithat’tan A. H. Tanpınar’a,</i> İstanbul: İletişim Yayınları.</p>

    <p class="refence">Muchembled, Robert. 1978. <i>Culture Populaire et culture des élites dans la France moderne, XVé-XVIIIé siècles,</i> Paris: Flammarion.</p>

    <p class="refence">Mughul, Yakub, 1965. “Portekizlilerle Kızıldeniz’de Mücadele ve Hicaz’da Osmanlı Hakimiyetinin Yerleşmesi Hakkında Bir Vesika ...,” <i>Belgeler,</i> II, 3-4 s. 37-47.</p>

    <p class="refence">Murphey, Rhoads, 1988. “Provisioning Istanbul: The State and Subsistence in the Early Modern Middle East,” <i>Food and Foodways,</i> 2, s. 217-263.</p>

    <p class="refence">Museum fur Kunsthandwerk, Frankfurt/Main. 1985. <i>Türkische Kunts und kültür aus osmanischer Zeit</i>, 2 c., Recklinghausen: Aurel Bongeris.</p>

    <p class="refence">Mustafa Âlî. 1978-1982. <i>Mustafa Âlî’s Counsel for Sultans of 1581,</i> çevrimyazı ve ed. Andreas Tietze, 2 c., Viyana: Verlag der Österreichischen Akademie der Wissenschaften.</p>

    <p class="refence">Müller-Wiener, Wolfgang. 1977. <i>Bildlexikon zur Topographie Istanbuls, Byzantion-Konstantinupolis-İstanbul bis zum Beginn des 17. Jahrhunderts,</i> Tübingen: Ernst Wasmuth.</p>

    <p class="refence">Nasuhü’s-silâhî (Matrakçı). 1976. <i>Beyân-i Menâzil-İ Sefer i Trâkeyn-i Sultân Süleyman Hân,</i> Hüseyin G. Yurdaydın (ed), Ankara: Türk Tarih Kurumu.</p>

    <p class="refence">Nayır, Zeynep, 1975. <i>Osmanlı Mimarlığında Sultan Ahmed Külliyesi ve Sonrası, 1609-1690,</i> İstanbul: İTÜ Mimarlık Fakültesi.</p>

    <p class="refence">Necipoğlu-Kafadar, Gülru. 1986a. “Plans and Models in 15th and 16th Century Ottoman Architectural Practice,” <i>Journal of the Society of Architectural Historians,</i> XLX, 3, s. 224-243.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1986b. “The Süleymaniye Complex in İstanbul: An Interpretation,” <i>Mukarnas,</i> 3, s. 92-117.</p>

    <p class="refence">-1991. <i>Architecture, Ceremonial and Power, The Topkapi Palace in the Fifteenth and Sixteenth Centuries,</i> Cambridge MA: The Architectural History Foundation ve MIT Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1992. “The Life of an Imperial Monument: Hagia Sophia after Byzantium,” <i>Hagia Sophia from the Age of Justinian to the Present,</i> Robert Mark ve Ahmet S. Çakmak (ed), Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, s. 195-225.</p>

    <p class="refence">Neumann, Christoph, 1994. <i>Das indirekte Argument, Ein Plädoyer fiir die Tanzimat vermittels der Historie, Die geschichtliche Bedeutung von Ahmed Cevdet Paşas Ta’rih,</i> Münster, Hamburg: Lit Verlag.</p>

    <p class="refence">Ocak, A. Yaşar, 1989. <i>La révolte de Baba Resul au la formation de l’hétérodoxie musulmane en Anatolie au Xllle siècle,</i> Ankara: Conseil Suprême d’Atatürk pour Culture, Langue et Histoire.</p>

    <p class="refence">-1991. “Les réactions socio-religieuses contre l’idéologie officielle ottomane et la question de <i>zendeqa ve ilhâd</i> (hérésie et athéisme) au XVIe siècle,” <i>Turcica,</i> XXI-XXIII, s. 71-82.</p>

    <p class="refence">D’Ohsson, Mouradjea. 1788-1824. <i>Tableau général de l’Empire Ottoman, 7</i> c., Paris: L’Imprimerie de Monsieur ve Firmin Didot.</p>

    <p class="refence">Okay, M. Orhan, t.y. <i>Türk Pozitivist ve Natüralisti Beşir Fuad,</i> İstanbul: Dergâh Yayınları.</p>

    <p class="refence">Orhonlu, Cengiz. 1967. <i>Osmanlı İmparatorluğunda Derbent Teşkilatı,</i> İstanbul: İstanbul Üniversitesi Edebiyat Fakültesi.</p>

    <p class="refence">-1974. <i>Osmanlı İmparatorluğunun Güney Siyaseti, Habeş Eyaleti,</i> İstanbul: İstanbul Üniversitesi Edebiyat Fakültesi.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1984a (yeni basım). “İstanbul’da Kayıkçılık ve Kayık İşletmeciliği,” <i>Osmanlı İmparatorluğunda Şehircilik ve Ulaşım,</i> Salih Özbaran (ed), İzmir: Ege Üniversitesi Edebiyat Fakültesi, s. 83-103.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1984b (yeni basım). “Şehir Mimarları” s. 83-103.</p>

    <p class="refence">Ortaylı, İlber, 1981, <i>İkinci Abdülhamit Döneminde Osmanlı İmparatorluğunda Alman Nüfuzu,</i> Ankara: AÜ Siyasal Bilgiler Fakültesi.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1983. <i>İmparatorluğun En Uzun Yüzyılı,</i> İstanbul: Hil Yayını.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1985. <i>Tanzimattan Cumhuriyete Yerel Yönetim Geleneği,</i> İstanbul: Hil Yayım.</p>

    <p class="refence">Osman Ağa. 1954. <i>Leben und Abenteuer des Dolmestschers Osman Aga, Eine türkische Autobiographie aus der Zeit der grossen Kriege gegen Österreich,</i> Richard Kreutel ve Otto Spies (çev. ve ed.), Bonn: Orientalisches Seminar der Universität Bonn.</p>

    <p class="refence">[Osman Ağa], 1962. <i>Der Gefangene der Giauren, Die abenteuerlichen Schicksale des ‘Osman Ağa aus Temeschwar, von ihm sebst erzahlt,</i> Richard F. Kreutel ve Otto Spies (çev. ve giriş), Graz, Wien, Köln: Verlag Styria.</p>

    <p class="refence">Öney, Gönül. 1971. <i>Ankara’da Türk Devri Yapıları, Turkish Period Buildings in Ankara,</i> Ankara: Dil ve Tarih-Coğrafya Fakültesi Yayınları.</p>

    <p class="refence">Özdeğer, Hüseyin. 1988. <i>1463-1640 Yılları Bursa Şehri Tereke Defterleri,</i> İstanbul: İstanbul Üniversitesi İktisat Fakültesi.</p>

    <p class="refence">Özergin, M. Kemal. 1965. “Anadolu’da Selçuklu Kervansarayları,” <i>Tarih Dergisi,</i> XV, 20, s. 141-170.</p>

    <p class="refence">Ozön, Mustafa Nihat. 1985. <i>Türkçede Roman,</i> İstanbul: İletişim Yayınları.</p>

    <p class="refence">Oztuncay, Bahattin. 1992. <i>James Robertson, Pioneer of Photography in the Ottoman Empire,</i> İstanbul: Eren.</p>

    <p class="refence">Panzac, Daniel. 1985. <i>La peste dans l’Empire Ottoman, 1700-1850,</i> Louvain: Editions peeters.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1992. “International and Domestic Maritime Trade in the Ottoman Empire during the 18th Century,” <i>International Journal of Middle East Studies,</i> 24, s. 189-206.</p>

    <p class="refence">Parlatır, İsmail. 1987. <i>Tanzimat Edebiyatında Kölelik,</i> Ankara: Türk Tarih Kurumu.</p>

    <p class="refence">Patlagean, Evelyne. 1977. <i>Pauvreté économique et pauvreté sociale à Byzance, 4e-7e siècles,</i> Paris, Den Haag: Mouton.</p>

    <p class="refence">Peirce, Leslie. 1988. “Shifting Boundaries: Images of Ottoman Royal Women in the 16th and 17th Centuries,” <i>Critical Matrix,</i> 4, 1, s. 43-81.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1993. <i>The Imperial Harem, Women and Sovereignty in the Ottaman Empire,</i> New York, Oxford University Press [Türkçe basım: <i>Harem-i Hümayun,</i> İstanbul: Tarih Vakfı Yurt Yayınları, 1996].</p>

    <p class="refence">Petry, Cari. 1981. <i>The Civilian Elite of Cairo in the Later Middle Ages,</i> Princeton: Princeton University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Piri Reis. 1935. <i>Kitabı Bahriye,</i> Haydar Alpaget ve Fevzi Kurtoğlu (ed), İstanbul: Türk Tarih Kurumu.</p>

    <p class="refence">Planhol, Xavier de. 1958. <i>De la plaine Pamphylienne aux lacs pisidieus, nomadisme et vie paysanne,</i> Paris: Institut Français d’Archéologie d’Istanbul ve Andrien Maisonneuve.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1968. <i>Les fondements géographiques de l’histoire de l’Islam,</i> Paris: Flammarion.</p>

    <p class="refence">Popovic, Xavier de. 1968. “Représentation du passé et transmission de l’identité chez les musulmans du Balkans,” <i>Les Balkans à l’époque ottomane, Revue du monde musulman et de la Méditerranée,</i> Daniel Panzac (ed), Aix-en-Provence: Editions Edisud, 66, s. 139-144.</p>

    <p class="refence">Quataert, Donald. 1983. <i>Social Disintegration and Popular Resistance in the Ottoman empire, 1881-1908,</i> New York: New York University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1986. “Machine Breaking and the Changing Carpet Industry of Western Anatolia, 1860-1908,” <i>Journal of Social History,</i> 19, 3, s. 473-489.</p>

    <p class="refence">Raby, Julian. 1982. <i>Venice, Dürer and the Oriental Mode,</i> Londra: Islamic Art Publications, Sotheby.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1983. “Mehmed the Coqueror’s Greek Scriptorium,” <i>Dumbarton Oaks Papers,</i> 37, s. 15-34.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1986. “The Porcelain Trade Routes,” <i>Chinese Ceramics in the Topkapı Saray Museum, Istanbul, Complete Catalogue, I Yuan and Ming Dynasty Celadon</i> Wares, Regina Krahl ve John Ayer (ed), Londra: Sotheby’s Publications, s. 55-64.</p>

    <p class="refence">Raby, Julian ve Yücel, Ünsal. 1986. “Chinese Porcelain at the Ottoman Court,” <i>Chinese Ceramics in the Topkapı Saray Museum, Istanbul, Complete Catalogue, I Yuan and Ming Dynasty Celadon Wares,</i> Regina Krahl ve John Ayer (ed), Londra: Sotheby’s Publications, s. 27-54.</p>

    <p class="refence">Raymond, André. 1973-74. <i>Artisans et commerçants au Caire au XVIIle siècle,</i> 2 c., Damaskus: Institut Français de Damas.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1979. “La conquête ottomane et le dévéloppement des grandes villes arabes. Le cas du Caire, de Damas et d’Alep,” <i>Rue de ¡’Occident musulman et de la méditerranée,</i> 1, s. 115-134.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1984. <i>The Great Arab Cities in the 16th-18th centuries, an Introduction,</i> New York, Londra: New York University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1985. <i>Grandes villes arabes à l’époque ottomane,</i> Paris: Sindbad [Türkçe basım: <i>Osmanlı Döneminde Arap Kentleri,</i> İstanbul: Tarih Vakfı Yurt Yayınları, 1995].</p>

    <p class="refence">Redhouse, James W. 1921 (yeni basım). <i>A Turkish and English Lexicon,</i> İstanbul: American Board Mission ve H. Matteosian.</p>

    <p class="refence">Reid. Anthony. 1969. “Sixteenth Century Turkish Influence in Western Indonesia,” <i>Journal of Southeast Asian History,</i> X, 3, s. 395-414.</p>

    <p class="refence">Reindl-Kiel, Hedda. (hazırlanıyor) “A Woman Timar-Holder in Ankara Province during the Second Half of the 16th Century,” <i>Journal of the Economic and Social History of the Orient.</i></p>

    <p class="refence">Reindl-Kiel, Hedda ve Kiel, Machiel. 1991. “Kaugummi fur den Sultan, Ein Beitrag zur Wirtschaftgeschichte der Insel Chios im 17. Jahrhundert,” <i>Osmanlı Araştırmaları,</i> XI, s. 181-205.</p>

    <p class="refence">Renda, Günsel. 1989. “Die tarditionelle türkische Malerei und das Einsetzen der wesdichen Einflüsse,” <i>Geshichte der türkischen Malerei,</i> Istanbul: Pala-sar SA, s. 15-86.</p>

    <p class="refence">-ve diğ. 1993. <i>Çağlarboyu Anadolu’da Kadın, Anadolu Kadınının 9000 Yılı,</i> Ankara: TC Kültür Bakanlığı.</p>

    <p class="refence">Reyhanlı, Tülay. 1983. <i>İngiliz Gezginlerine Göre XVI. Yüzyılda İstanbul’da Hayat, 1582-1599,</i> Ankara: Kültür ve Turizm Bakanlığı.</p>

    <p class="refence">Rıfat Osman. 1989 (yeni basım). <i>Edirne Sarayı,</i> Süheyl Ünver (ed), Ankara: Türk Tarih Kurumu.</p>

    <p class="refence">Roche, Daniel. 1989. <i>La culture des apparences, l’histoire du vêtement, XVIle et XVIIIe siècles,</i> Paris: Fayard.</p>

    <p class="refence">Rodinson, Maxime. 1987. <i>Europe and the Mystique of Islam,</i> çev. Roger Veinus, Seattle, Londra: University of Washington Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Rogers, Michael. 1982. “The State and the Arts in Ottoman Turkey,” <i>International Journal of Middle East Studies,</i> 14, s. 71-86, 283-313.</p>

    <p class="refence">Rombauer, Irma S. ve Rombauer-Becker, Marion. 1973 (yeni basım). <i>The Joy of Cooking,</i> New York: The New American Library.</p>

    <p class="refence">Rona, Zeynep (ed). 1993. <i>Osman Hamdi Beyve Dönemi, Sempozyum 17-18 Aralık 1922,</i> İstanbul: Tarih Vakfi Yurt Yayınları.</p>

    <p class="refence">Roth, Klaus. 1993. “Populare Lesestoffe in Südosteuropa,” <i>Südosteuropaische Popularliteratur im 19. und 20. Jahrhundert,</i> Klaus Roth (ed), Münih: Münchner Vereinigung fur Volkskunde, Südosteuropa-Gesellschaft, s. 11-32.</p>

    <p class="refence">Runciman, Steven. 1968. <i>The Great Church in Captivity, A Study of the Patriarchate of Constantinople from the Eve of the Turkish Conquest to the Greek War of Independence,</i> Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Saatçi, Suphi. 1990. “Tezkiret-ül Bünyan'ın Topkapı Sarayı Revan Kitaplığındaki Yazma Nüshası,” <i>Topkapı Sarayı Yıllığı,</i> 4, s. 55-102.</p>

    <p class="refence">Sack, Dorothée. 1989. <i>Damaskus, Entwicklung und Struktur einer orientalisch-islamischen Stadt,</i> Mainz/Rhein: Verlag Philipp von Zabern.</p>

    <p class="refence">Sahillioğlu, Halil. 1975. “Bursa Kadı Sicillerinde İç ve Dış Ödemeler Aracı Olarak ‘Kitabü’l-Kadı’ ve ‘Süfteceler’,” <i>Türkiye İktisat Tarihi Semineri Metinler-Tartışmalar ...,</i> Osman Okyar ve Ünal Nalbantoğlu (ed), Ankara: Hacettepe Üniversitesi, s. 103-144.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1985. “Slaves in the Social and Economic Life of Bursa in the late 15th and early 16th Centuries,” <i>Turcica,</i> XVIII. s. 43-112.</p>

    <p class="refence">Sai Çelebi. 1988. <i>Tezkiretü’l Bünyan,</i> Sadık Erdem (ed), İstanbul: Binbirdirek Yayını.</p>

    <p class="refence">Said, Edward. 1978. <i>Orientalism,</i> New York: Random House.</p>

    <p class="refence">Sallmann, Jean-Michel. 1986. <i>Chercheurs de trésors et jeteuses de sorts, la quête du surnaturel à Naples au XVIe siècle,</i> Paris: Aubier.</p>

    <p class="refence">Sandgruber, Roman. 1993. “Österreichs 1650-1850,” <i>Handbuch der europäishen Wirtschafts- und Sozialgeschichte,</i> c. 4, <i>Europäishe Wirtshafts-und Sozialgeschichte von der Mitte des 17. Jahrhunderts bis zur Mitte des 19. Jahrhunderts,</i> Ilja Mieck (ed), Stuttgart: Klett Cotta, s. 619-687.</p>

    <p class="refence">Schacht, Joseph. 1982 (yeni basım). <i>An Introduction to Islamic Law,</i> Oxford: Oxford University-Clarendon Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Schleiermacher, Friedrich Daniel Ernst. 1984. <i>Kritische Gesamtausgabe,</i> 1. b., c. 2, <i>Schriften aus der Berliner zeit 1796-1799,</i> Günter Meckenstock (ed), Berlin, New York: De Gruyter.</p>

    <p class="refence">Scholem, Gershom. 1973. <i>Sabbatai Sevi, the Mystical Messiah, 1626-1676,</i> çev. R. J. Zwi Werblowsky, Princeton: Princeton University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Schwarz, Hans-Günther. 1990. <i>Der orientalische Teppich in der wesdichen Literatur, Ästhetik und Kunst,</i> Münih: Iudicium Verlag.</p>

    <p class="refence">Schwarz, Klaus. 1970. <i>Osmanische Sultansurkunden des Sinai Klosters in türkischer Sprache,</i> Freiburg i. Br.: Klaus Schwarz Verlag.</p>

    <p class="refence">Schweigger, Salomon. 1986. <i>Zum Hofe des türkischen Sultans,</i> Heidi Stein (ed), Leipzig: FA Brockhaus.</p>

    <p class="refence">Sella, Domenico. 1968. “Crisis and Transformation in Venetian Trade,” <i>Crisis and Change in the Venetian Economy in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries,</i> Brian Pullan (ed), Londra: Methuen, s. 88-105.</p>

    <p class="refence">Seng, Yvonne. 1991. “The Üsküdar Estates <i>(tereke)</i> as Records of Daily Life in an Ottoman Town 1521-24”, basılmamış doktora tezi, University of Chicago.</p>

    <p class="refence">Seni, Nora. 1994. “The Camondos and their Imprint on 19th Century Istanbul,” <i>International Journal of Middle East Studies, 26,</i> s. 663-675.</p>

    <p class="refence">Seyyid Hasan. “Sohbetname”, Topkapı Sarayı Kütüphanesi, Hazine 1426, c. 1, Hazine 1418.</p>

    <p class="refence">Shaw, Stanford J. 1977. <i>History of the Ottoman Empire and Modern Turkey,</i> c. 2, ve Ezel Kural Shaw, <i>Reform, Revolution and Republic: The Rise of Modern Turkey, 1808-1975,</i> Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Sınır, Ferruh. 1949. <i>Sultan Dağlarından Sakarya’ya, Akşehir, Eşme ve Turgut Ovalariyle Yukarı Sakarya’dan iki Vadi Boyu ve Akşehir,</i> Ankara: Ulus Basımevi.</p>

    <p class="refence">Sievernich, Gereon (ed). 1989. <i>Europa und der Orient: 800-1900,</i> Berlin, Gütersloh, Münih: Berliner Festspiele und Bertelsmann.</p>

    <p class="refence">Sirman, Ayşe Nüket. 1988. “Peasants and Family Farms: the Position of Households in Cotton Production in a Village of Western Turkey”, basılmamış doktora tezi, University College, Londra.</p>

    <p class="refence">Skowronski, Monika. 1993. “Die Distribution bulgarischer Volksbücher im 19. und 20. Jahrhundert (bis 1944),” <i>Südosteuropäische Popularliteratur im 19. und 20. Jahrhundert,</i> Klaus Roth (cd), Münih: Münchner Vereinigung fur Volkskunde, Südosteuropa-Gesellschaft, s. 137-158.</p>

    <p class="refence">Smith, Grâce M. 1983. “Food Practices at the “Kadirihane” Dergah in Istanbul,” <i>Journal of Turkish Studies, 7,</i> s. 403-406.</p>

    <p class="refence">Soboul, Albert, 1970. <i>La civilisation et la révolution française,</i> I, <i>La crise de l’Ancien Régime,</i> Paris: Arthaud.</p>

    <p class="refence">Sohrweide, Hanna. 1965. “Der Sieg der Safawiden in Persien und seine Rückwirkungen auf die Schiiten Anatoliens im 16. Jahrhundert,” <i>Der Islam,</i> 41, s. 95-223.</p>

    <p class="refence">Soysal, Ismail. 1964. <i>Fransız İhtilâli ve Türk-Fransız Diplomasi Münasebetleri, 1789-1802,</i> Ankara: Türk Tarih Kurumu.</p>

    <p class="refence">Steensgaard, Niels. 1974. <i>The Asian Trade Revolution of the Seventeenth Century, The East India Companies and the Décliné of the Caravan Trade,</i> Chicago: University of Chicago Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Stoianovich, Traian. 1960. “The Conquering Balkan Orthodox Merchant,” <i>The Journal of Economic History,</i> XX, s. 234-313.</p>

    <p class="refence">Strauss, Johann. 1992. “Zum Istanbuler Buchwesen in der zweiten Hälfte des 19. Jahrhunderts,” <i>Osmanlı Araştırmaları,</i> XII, s. 307-338.</p>

    <p class="refence">-1993. “İstanbul’da Kitap Yayını ve Basımevleri,” <i>Müteferrika,</i> 1, s. 5-18.</p>

    <p class="refence">Symposium. 1974. <i>L’époque phanariote, 21-25 Octobre 1970. A la Mémoire de Cleobule Tsourkas,</i> Selanik: Institute for Balkan Studies.</p>

    <p class="refence">Şamic, Jasna. 1986. <i>Divan de Ka’imî, Vie et oeuvre d’un Poète bosniaque du XVIIe siècle,</i> Paris: Institut Français d’Etudes Anatoliennes ve Editions Recherche sur les Civilizations.</p>

    <p class="refence">Taeschner, Franz. 1923. “Die geographische Literatur der Osmanen,” <i>Zeitchrift der Deutschen Morgenländischen Gesellschaft, 2,</i> 1, s. 31-56.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1968. “Kırşehir, ein altes Kulturzentrum aus spät- und nachseldschukischer Zeit,” <i>Necati Lugal Armağanı,</i> Ankara: Türk Tarih Kurumu, s. 577-592.</p>

    <p class="refence">Tanyu, Hikmet. 1967. <i>Ankara ve Çevresinde Adak ve Adak Yerleri,</i> Ankara: Ankara Üniversitesi Basımevi.</p>

    <p class="refence">Taşköprüzâde. 1927. <i>Eş-şaqa’iq en-nomânijje von Taşköprüzâde, enthaltend die Biographien der türkischen und im osmanischen Reiche wirkenden Gelehrten, Derwish-Scheih’s und Arzte von der Regierung Sultan ‘Otmân’s bis zu der sülaimâns des Grossen,</i> çev. O. Rescher, Istanbul: Phoenix.</p>

    <p class="refence">Tezcan, Hülya; Delibaş, Selmi; Rogers, John Michael. 1980. <i>Topkapı Sarayı Museum, Textilien,</i> çev. Karin Hein, Herrsching/Ammersee: Schuler Verlagsgesellschaft.</p>

    <p class="refence">Theunissen, Hans; Abelmann, Annelies; Meulenkamp, Wim. 1989. <i>Topkapi en Turkomanic, Turks-Nederlandse ontmoetingen sinds 1600 in samemverking met Museum voor Volkenkunde, Rotterdam, Museum Het Princes-sehof, Leuwarden,</i> Amsterdam: De Batafsche Leeuw.</p>

    <p class="refence">Thévenot, Jean. 1980 (kısaltılmış yeni basım). <i>Voyage du Levant,</i> Stéphane Yérasimos (ed. ve giriş), Paris: Maspéro.</p>

    <p class="refence">Thieck, Jean-Pierre. 1985. “Décentralization otomane et affirmation urbaine à Alep à la fin du XVTIIéme siècle,” <i>Mouvements communautaires et espaces urbains au Machreq,</i> Beyrut: Centre d’Etudes et de Recherches sur le Moyen Orient Contemporain, s. 117-168.</p>

    <p class="refence">Thomas, Lewis. 1972. <i>A Study of Naima,</i> Norman Itzkowitz (ed), New York: New York University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Thompson, E. P. 1971. “The Moral Economy of the English Crowd in the Eighteenth Century,” <i>Past and Present,</i> 50, s. 76-136.</p>

    <p class="refence">Tietze, Andreas. 1942. “Die Geschichte vom Kerkermeister-Kapitän, Ein türkischer Seeräuberroman aus dem 17. Jahrhundert,” Acta <i>Orientalia,</i> 19, s. 152-210.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1992. “Mustafa Alî on Luxury and the Status Symbols of Ottoman Gentlemen,” <i>Studia Turcologica Memoriae Alexii Bombaci Dicata,</i> Napoli: Istituto Universitario Orientali, s. 577-590.</p>

    <p class="refence">Tilly, Charles. 1985. “War Making and State Making as Organized Crime,” <i>Bringing the State Back in,</i> Peter B. Evans, Dietrich Rueschemeyer ve Theda Skocpol (ed), Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, s. 169-191.</p>

    <p class="refence">Timur, Taner. 1986. <i>Osmanlı Kimliği,</i> Istanbul: Hil Yayın.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1991. <i>Osmanlı-Türk Romanında Tarih, Toplum ve Kimlik,</i> İstanbul: AFA Yayınları.</p>

    <p class="refence">Todorov, Nikolay. 1967/68. “19.cu Yüzyılın İlk Yarısında Bulgaristan Esnaf Teşkilatında Bazı Karakter Değişmeleri,” <i>İstanbul Üniversitesi İktisat Fakültesi Mecmuası,</i> 27, 1-2, s. 1-36.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1980. La <i>ville balkanique aux XVe XIXc siècles, Développement socio-économique et démographique,</i> Bükreş: AIESEE.</p>

    <p class="refence">P[itton] de Tournefort, Joseph. 1982. <i>Voyage d’un botaniste, 2 c.,</i> Stéphane Yérasimos (ed), Paris: François Maspéro, La Découverte.</p>

    <p class="refence">Trimingham, Spencer. 1971. <i>The Sufi Orders in Islam,</i> Oxford, Londra: Oxford University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Trumpener, Ulrich. 1968. <i>Germany and the Ottoman Empire 1914-1918,</i> Princeton NJ: Princeton University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Tsirpanlis, Zacharias. 1993. “Der griechische Raum 1650-1850,” <i>Handbuch der Europäischen Wirtschafts- und Sozialgeschichte, c. 4, Wolfram Fischer ve Ilya Mieck (ed), s. 1060-1070.</i></p>

    <p class="refence">Turan, Şerafettin. 1963. “Osmanlı Teşkilatında Hassa Mimarları,” <i>Tarih Araştırmaları Dergisi,</i> 1, 1, s. 157-202.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1990. <i>Türk Kültür Tarihi, Türk Kültüründen Türkiye Kültürüne ve Evrenselliğe,</i> Ankara: Bilgi Yayınevi.</p>

    <p class="refence">Uçman, Abdullah. 1989. “Ebubekir Ratip Efendi’nin Nemçe Seyahatnamesi,” <i>Tarih ve Toplum,</i> 69, s. 155-160.</p>

    <p class="refence">Uluçay, Çağatay. 1950. <i>Osmanlı Sultanlarına Aşk Mektupları,</i> İstanbul: Tarih Dünyası Mecmuası Yayınları.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1956. <i>Harem’den Mektuplar,</i> İstanbul: Vakit Matbaası.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1980. <i>Padişahların Kadınları ve Kızları,</i> Ankara: Türk Tarih Kurumu.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1985 (yeni basım). <i>Harem II,</i> Ankara: Türk Tarih Kurumu Basımevi.</p>

    <p class="refence">Ursinus, Michael. 1989. “Klassisches Altertum und europäisches Mittelalter im Urteil spätosmanischer Geschichtsschreiber,” <i>Zeitschrift für Türkeistudien,</i> 2, 2, s. 69-78.</p>

    <p class="refence">Uzluk, Feridun Nafiz. 1958. <i>Fatih Devrinde Karaman Eyaleti Vakıfları Fihristi, Tapu ve Kadastro Umum Müdürlüğü Arşivindeki Deftere Göre,</i> Ankara: Vakıflar Umum Müdürlüğü.</p>

    <p class="refence">Uzunçarşılı, İsmail Hakkı. 1945. <i>Osmanlı Devletinin Saray Teşkilatı,</i> Ankara: Türk Tarih Kurumu.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1965. <i>Osmanlı Devletinin İlmiye Teşkilatı,</i> Ankara: Türk Tarih Kurumu.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1972. <i>Mekke-i Mükerreme Emirleri,</i> Ankara: Türk Türih Kurumu.</p>

    <p class="refence">Ülgener, Sabri. 1981. <i>İktisadi Çözülmenin Ahlak ve Zihniyet Dünyası,</i> İstanbul: DER Yayınları.</p>

    <p class="refence">Vartan Paşa. 1991. <i>Akabi Hikâyesi, İlk Türkçe Roman (1851 ),</i> Andreas Tietze (ed), İstanbul: Eren.</p>

    <p class="refence">Veinstein, Gilles. 1976. “‘Ayân’ de la région d’Izmir et commerce du Levant (Deuxième Moitié du XVIIIe),” <i>Etudes balkaniques,</i> XII, 3, s. 71-83.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1983. “L’hivernage en campagne, talon d’Achille du système militaire ottoman classique, à propos des sipâhi de Roumélie en 1559-1560,” <i>Studia Islamica,</i> LVIII, s. 109-143.</p>

    <p class="refence">Vesela-Pranosilova, Zdenka. 1978/79. “Sur l’activité du monastère de Ste-Cathérine de Sinai en Bosnie,” <i>Prilozi za Orientainu Filologiju,</i> XXVIII-XXIX, s. 257-267.</p>

    <p class="refence">Vovelle, Michel. 1982. <i>Idéologies et mentalités,</i> Paris: Francois Maspéro.</p>

    <p class="refence">Vryonis, Spiros. 1971. <i>The Decline of Medieval Hellenism in Asia Minor and the Process of Islamization From the Eleventh through the Fifteenth Century,</i> Berkeley, Los Angeles: University of California Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Walkowitz, Judith R. 1992. <i>City of Dreadful Delight, Narratives of Sexual Danger in Late Victorian London,</i> Chicago, Londra: Chicago University Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Wallerstein, Immanuel. 1974. <i>The Modern World System, Capitalist Agriculture and the Origins of the European World Economy in the Sixteenth Century,</i> New York, San Francisco, London: Academic Press.</p>

    <p class="refence">Wallerstein, Immanuel; Decdeli, Hale; Kasaba, Reşat. 1987. “The Incorporation of the Ottoman Empire into the World Economy,” <i>The Ottoman Empire and the World Economy,</i> Huri İslamoğlu-İnan (ed), Cambridge, Paris: Cambridge University Press ve Maison des Sciences de l’Homme, s. 88-100.</p>

    <p class="refence">Wild, Johann. 1964. <i>Reysbeschreibung eines Gefangenen Christen Anno 1604,</i> Georg A. Narciss ve Karl Teply (ed), Stuttgart: Steingrüben Verlag.</p>

    <p class="refence">Wirth, Eugen. 1974-75. “Der Orientteppich und Europa. Ein Beitrag zu den vielfältigen Aspekten west-östlicher Kulturkontakte und Wirtschaftsbeziehungen,” <i>Mitteilungen der Fränkischen Geographischen Gesellschaft,</i> 21-22, s. 291-400.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1986. “Aleppo im 19. Jahrhundert - ein Beispiel für die Stabilität und Dynamik spätosmanischer Wirtschaft,” <i>Osmanische Studien zur Wirtsc-hafts- und Sozialgeschichte, In memoriam Vanco Boskov,</i> Wiesbaden: Otto Harrassowitz, s. 186-205.</p>

    <p class="refence">Wunder, Heide. 1992. <i>Er ist die Sonn, sie ist der Mond. Frauen in der Frühen Neuzeit,</i> Münih: C. H. Beck.</p>

    <p class="refence">Yates, Frances A. 1985 (yeni basım). <i>Astraea, The Imperial Theme in the Sixteenth Century,</i> London: Roudedge and Kegan Paul.</p>

    <p class="refence">Yavuz, Hulusi. 1984. <i>Kabe</i> <i>ve Haremeyn için Yemen’de Osmanlı Hakimiyeti, 1517-1571,</i> İstanbul: kendi yayını.</p>

    <p class="refence">Yavuz, Yıldırım. 1981. <i>Mimar Kemalettin ve Birinci Ulusal Mimarlık Dönemi,</i> Ankara: ODTÜ Mimarlık Fakültesi.</p>

    <p class="refence">Ydema, Onno. 1990, yeni basım 1991. <i>Carpets and their Datings in Netherlandish Paintings 1540-1700,</i> Wappingers Falls NY: Antique Collector Club.</p>

    <p class="refence">Yérasimos, Stephane. 1990. <i>La Fondation de Constantinople et de Sainte-Sophie dans les traditions turques,</i> İstanbul, Paris: Institut français d’études anatoliennes ve Librairie d’Amérique et d’Orient.</p>

    <p class="refence">Yıldırım, Dursun. 1976. <i>Türk Edebiyatında Bektaşi Tipine Bağlı Fıkralar, İnceleme-Metin,</i> Ankara: Kültür Bakanlığı.</p>

    <p class="refence">Zilfi, Madeline. 1977. “The Diary of a Müderris: A New Source for Ottoman Biography,” <i>Journal of Turkish Studies,</i> 1, s. 157-173.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1986. “Discordant Revivalism in Seventeenth-Century Istanbul,” <i>The Journal of Near Eastern Studies,</i> 45, 4, s. 251-269.</p>

    <p class="refence">- 1988. <i>The Politics of Piety: The Ottoman Ulema in the Postclassical Age, 1600-1800,</i> Minneapolis: Bibliotheca Islamica.</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>
