<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <title>CHOPIN</title>
  <link href="../Styles/main.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body class="bibliography epub-type_bibliography">
  <div class="container html5_section">
    <p><em>Analytical Perspectives on the Music of Chopin, Naradowy Instytut Fryderyka Chopina, 2003.</em></p>

    <p><em>Atwood, William G., The Parisian Worlds of Frédéric Chopin,Yale University Press, 1999.</em></p>

    <p><em>Beci, Veronika, Musikalische Salons, Blütezeit einer Frauenkultur, Artemis &amp; Winkler, 2000.</em></p>

    <p><em>Büke, Aydın, Mozart – Bir Yaşamöyküsü, Dünya Kitapları, 2006.</em></p>

    <p><em>Chopin, Frédéric, Chopin’s Letters, Derleyen: Henryk Opieński, İngilizce’ye çeviren: E.L. Voynich, Dover Publication, 1988.</em></p>

    <p><em>Chopin in Performance: History, Theory, Practice, Naradowy Instytut Fryderyka Chopina, 2004.</em></p>

    <p><em>Chopin’s Musical Worlds, The 1840’s, Naradowy Instytut Fryderyka Chopina, 2007.</em></p>

    <p><em>Chopin’s Work. His Inspirations and Creative Process in the Light of the Sources, Naradowy Instytut Fryderyka Chopina, 2002.</em></p>

    <p><em>Claudon, François, Romantizm Sanat Ansiklopedisi, çeviren: Özdemir İnce, Remzi Kitabevi, 1988.</em></p>

    <p><em>Eckermann, Johann Peter, Yaşamının Son Yıllarında Goethe ile Konuşmalar, çeviren Mahmure Kahraman, Türkiye İş Bankası Kültür Yayınları, 2007.</em></p>

    <p><em>Eigeldinger, Jean-Jacques, Chopin, Pianist and Teacher as Seen by His Pupils, İngilizce’ye çevirenler: Naomi Shohet, Krysia Osostowicz, Roy Howat, Cambridge University Press, 1986.</em></p>

    <p><em>Ferra, Bartomeu, Chopin und George Sand auf Mayorka, Almanca’ya çeviren: Egon Schoss, Ediciones La Cartuja, 1975.</em></p>

    <p><em>Gide, André, Chopin Üzerine Notlar, İdil Biret’in Önsözüyle, çeviren: Ömer Bozkurt, Can Yayınları, 2010.</em></p>

    <p><em>Goldberg, Halina, Music in Chopin’s Warsaw, Oxford University Press, 2008.</em></p>

    <p><em>Gültek, Buğra, Piyano, Bir Çalgının Biyografisi, Epilog Yayıncılık, 2007.</em></p>

    <p><em>Hildebrandt, Dieter, Pianoforte, Der Roman des Klavier im 19. Jahrhundert, Dtv/Bärenreiter, 1988.</em></p>

    <p><em>Hobsbawm, Eric, Devrim Çağı, Avrupa 1789-1848, çeviren: Bahadır Sina Şener, Dost Kitabevi Yayınları, 2005 (4. Baskı).</em></p>

    <p><em>Juárez, Marita Albán, Sławińska-Dahling, Ewa, Chopin’s Poland, Naradowy Instytut Fryderyka Chopina, 2008.</em></p>

    <p><em>Liszt, Franz, Liszt’in Sözleriyle Chopin’in Hayatı, çeviren: Mesruh Savaş, Bileşim Yayınevi, 2005.</em></p>

    <p><em>Mendelssohn Bartholdy Briefe, Editör: Rudolf Elvers, Fischer Taschenbuch Verlag, 1984</em></p>

    <p><em>Mozart Briefe und Aufzeichnungen, Gesamtausgabe, Editörler: Wilhelm A. Bauer, Otto Erich Deutsch, Joseph Heinz Eibl, Deutscher Taschenbuch Verlag, 1962, Genişletilmiş Baskı 2005.</em></p>

    <p><em>Nicholas, Jeremy, Chopin, His Life &amp; Music, Naxos Books 2006.</em></p>

    <p><em>Sand, George, Ein Winter auf Majorca, Almanca’ya çeviren: Dr. K. Elsner, Edicions La Cartoixa, 1974.</em></p>

    <p><em>Sand, Georges, Hayatımın Hikâyesi, çeviren: Birsel Uzma, Oğlak Klasikleri, 2006.</em></p>

    <p><em>The Cambridge Companion to Chopin, Editör by Jim Samson, Cambridge University Press, 2004.</em></p>

    <p><em>The Journal of Eugène Delacroix, A selection edited with an introduction by Hubert Wellington, İngilizce’ye çeviren: Lucy Norton, Phaidon Press Limited, 2006.</em></p>

    <p><em>The New Grove Dictionary of Music &amp; Musicians, Editör Stanley Sadie, Chopin Maddesi: Arthur Hedley, Maurice J.E. Brown ve Nicholas Temperley, Macmillan Publishers, 2000.</em></p>

    <p><em>Tomaszweski, Mieczysław, Frédéric Chopin und seine Zeit, Almanca’ya çeviren: Małgorzata Kozłowska, Laaber Verlag 1999.</em></p>

    <p><em>Wüst, Hans Werner, Frédéric Chopin, Briefe und Zeitzeugnisse, Ein Portrait, Bouvier Verlag, 2007.</em></p>

    <p><em>Zieliński, Tadeusz A., Chopin, sein Leben, sein Werk, seine Zeit, Almanca’ya çeviren: M. Homma, M. Brockmann, Schott Music, 2008.</em></p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>
