<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head><meta name="charset" content="UTF-8"/>
<title>Yuval Noah Harari - Homo Deus</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/Stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/Stylesheet-kindle.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<blockquote>
<i>
 <h3 class="saga-hizala sigil_not_in_toc">İkinci Bölüm</h3>
<p><a id="w1" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w1">1.</a> <i>“Canis lupus</i>”, IUCN Red List of Threatened Species, 20 Aralık 2014’te erişilmiştir; <a href="http://www.iucnredlist.Org/details/3746/l">http://www.iucnredlist.Org/details/3746/l</a>; “Fact Sheet: Gray Wolf”, <i>Defenders of Wildlife,</i> 20 Aralık 2014’te erişilmiştir; <a href="http://www.defenders.org/gray-wolf/basic-facts">http://www.defenders.org/gray-wolf/basic-facts</a> ; “Companion Animals”, , accssed 20 Aralık 2014’te erişilmiştir; <a href="http://www.ifaheurope.org/companionanimals/aboutpets.html">http://www.ifaheurope.org/companionanimals/aboutpets.html</a>; “Global Review 2013”, World Animal Protection, 20 Aralık 2014’te erişilmiştir; <a href="https://www.worldanimalprotection.us.org/sites/default/files/us_files/global_review_2013_0.pdf">https://www.worldanimalprotection.us.org/sites/default/files/us_files/global_review_2013_0.pdf</a> 
</p>
<p><a id="w2" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w2">2.</a> Anthony D. Bamosky, “Megafauna Biomass Tradeoff as a Driver of Quatemary and Future Exdnctions”, <i>PNAS</i> 105:1 (2008), 11543-8; kurtlar ve aslanlar için: William J. Ripple ve diğ., “Status and Ecological Effects of the World’s Largest Camivores”, <i>Science</i> 343:6167 (2014), 151; Dr, Stanley Coren’e göre dünyada yaklaşık 500 milyon köpek vardır: Stanley Coren, “How Many Dogs Are There in the World”, , 19 Eylül 2012, 20 Aralık 2014’te erişilmiştir; <a href="http://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/canine-corner/201209/how-many-dogs-are-there-in-the-wor-ld">http://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/canine-corner/201209/how-many-dogs-are-there-in-the-wor-ld</a> 
; kedilerin sayısı için, bkz: Nicholas Wade, “DNA Traces 5 Matriarchs of 600 Million Domestic Cats”, <i>New York</i> , 29 Haziran 2007, 20 Aralık 2014’te erişilmiştir; <a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/29/health/29ihtcats.1.6406020.html">http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/29/health/29ihtcats.1.6406020.html</a>; Afrika Mandası için, bkz: “Syncerus caffer”, IUCN Red List of Threatened Species, 20 Aralık 2014’te erişilmiştir; <a href="http://www.iucnredlist.Org/details/15933/0">http://www.iucnredlist.Org/details/15933/0</a> ; inek nüfusu için, bkz: David Cottle ve Lewis Kahn, der., <i>BeefCattle Production and Trade</i> (Collingwood: Csiro, 2014), 66; tavukların sayısı için, bkz: “Live Animals”, <i>Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations: Statistical Division,</i> 20 Aralık 2014’te erişilmiştir; <a href="http://faostat3.fao.org/browse/Q/QA/E">http://faostat3.fao.org/browse/Q/QA/E</a> 
; şempanzelerin sayısı için, bkz: “Pan troglodytes”, IUCN Red List of Threatened Species, 20 Aralık 2014’te erişilmiştir; <a href="http://www.iucnredlist.Org/details/15933/0">http://www.iucnredlist.Org/details/15933/0</a>.</p>
<p><a id="w3" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w3">3.</a> “ <i>LivingPlanet Report 2014</i> ”, WWF Global, 20 Aralık 2014’te erişilmiştir, <a href="http://wwf.panda.org/about_our_earth/all_publications/living_planet_report/">http://wwf.panda.org/about_our_earth/all_publications/living_planet_report/</a>.</p>
<p><a id="w4" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w4">4.</a> Richard Inger ve diğ., “Common European Birds are Declining Rapidly While Less Abundant Species” Numbers Are Rising’, <i>Ecology Letters </i>18:1 (2014), 28-36; “Live Animals”, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, 20 Aralık 2014’te erişilmiştir, <a href="http://faostat.fao.org/site/573/default.aspx#ancor">http://faostat.fao.org/site/573/default.aspx#ancor</a>.</p>
<p><a id="w5" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w5">5.</a> Simon L. Lewis ve Mark A. Maslin, “Defining the Anthropocene”, <i>Nature </i>519 (2015), 171-80.</p>
<p><a id="w6" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w6">6.</a> Timothy F. Flannery, <i>The Future Eaters of the Aust</i>ks Australia, 1994); Anthony D. Barnosky ve diğ., “Assessing the Causes of Late Pleistocene £xtinctions on the Continents”, <i>Science</i> 306:5693 (2004), 70-5; Bary W. Brook ve David M. J. S. Bowman, “The Uncertain Blitzkrieg of Pleistocene Megafauna”, <i>Journal of Biogeograpby</i> 31:4 (2004), 517-23; Gifford H. Miller ve diğ., “Ecosystem Collapse in Pleistocene Australia and a Human Role in Megafaunal Extinction”, <i>Science</i> 309:5732 (2005), 287-90; Richard G. Roberts ve diğ., “New Ages for the Last Australian Megafauna: Continent Wide Extinction about 46,000 Years Ago”, <i>Science</i> 292:5523 (2001), 1888-92; Stephen Wroe ve Judith Field, “A Review of Evidence for a Human Role in the Extinction of Australian Megafauna and an Altemative Explanation”, <i>Quatemary Science Reviews</i> 25:21-2 (2006), 2692-703; Barry W. Brooks ve diğ., “Would the Australian Megafauna Have Become Extinct If Humans Had Never Colonised the Continent? Comments on “A Review of the Evidence for a Human Role in the Extinction of Australian Megafauna and an Altemative Explanation” S. Wroe and J. Field”, <i>Quatemary Science Revietvs</i> 26:3-4 (2007), 560-4; Chris S. M. Turney ve diğ., “Late-Surviving Megafauna in Tasmania, Australia, Implicate Human Involvement in their Extinction”, <i>PNAS</i> 105:34 (2008), 12150-3; John Alroy, “A Multispecies Overkill Simulation of the End-Pleistocene Mega* faunal Mass Extinction”, <i>Science</i> 292:5523 (2001), 1893-6; J. F. O’Connel ve J. Ailen, “Pre-LGM Sahul (Australia-New Guinea) and the Archaeology of Early Modern Humans”, <i>Rethinking the Human Evolution: New Behavioral and Biological Perspectives on the Origin and Dispersal of Modem HumanSy</i> der. Paul Mellars (Cambridge: McDonald Institute for Archaeological Research, 2007), 400-1.</p>
<p><a id="w7" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w7">7.</a> Graham Harvey, <i>Animism:Respecting the Living World</i> (Kent Town: Wakefield Press, 2005); Rane Willerslev, <i>Soul Hunters: Hunting, Animism and Personhood Among the Siberian Yukaghirs</i> (Berkeley: University of California Press, 2007); Elina Helander-Renvall, “Animism, Personhood and the Nature of Reality: Sami Perspectives”, <i>Polar Record</i> 46:1 (2010), 44-56; Istvan Praet, “Animal Conceptions in Animism and Conservation”, <i>Routledge Handbook of Human-Animal</i> der. Susan McHaugh ve Garry Marvin (New York: Routledge, 2014), 154—67; Nurit Bird-David, “Animism Revisited: Personhood, Environment, and Relational Epistemology”, <i>Current Anthropology</i>40 (1999): s67-91; N. Bird-David, “Animistic Epistemology: Why Some Hunter-Gatherers Do Not Depict Animals”, <i>Ethnos </i>71:1 (2006): 33-50.</p>
<p><a id="w8" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w8">8.</a> Danny Naveh, “Changes in the Perception of Animals and Plants with the Shift to Agricultural Life: What Can Be Leamt from the Nayaka Case, A Hunter-Gatherer Society from the Rain Forests of Southern India?” [İbranice], <i>Animals and Society</i>, 52 (2015): 7-8.</p>
<p><a id="w9" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w9">9.</a> Howard N. Wallace, “The Eden Narrative”, <i>Harvard Semitic </i>32 (1985), 147-81.</p>
<p><a id="w10" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w10">10.</a> David Adams Leeming ve Margaret Adams Leeming, <i>Encyclopedia of Creation Myths</i> (Santa Barbara: ABC-CLIO, 1994), 18; Sam D. Gill, <i>cking: Texts, Stories, and Histories in Central Australia</i> (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1998); Emily Miller Bonney., “Disarming the Snake Goddess: A Reconsideration of the Faience Figures from the Temple Repositories at Knossos”, <i>Journal of Mediterranean Archaeology</i> 24:2 (2011), 171-90; David Leeming, <i>The Oxford Companion to World Mythology</i> (Oxford ve New York: Oxford University Press, 2005), 350.</p>
<p><a id="w11" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w11">11.</a> Jerome H. Barkow, Leda Cosmides ve John Tooby, den, <i>The Adapted </i><i>Mind: Evolutionary Psychology and the Generation of Culture</i> (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1992); Richard W. Bloom ve Nancy Dess, der., <i>Evolutionary Psychology and Violence: A Primer for Policymakers and Public Policy Advocates</i> (Westport: Praegec, 2003); Charles Crawford ve Catherine Salmon, den, <i>Evolutionary</i> ; <i>Public Policy and Perso</i><i>nal Decisions</i> (New Jersey: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 2008); Patrick McNamara ve David Trumbull, <i>An Evolutionary Psychology of</i> -<i>Follower Relations</i> (New York: Nova Science, 2007); Joseph P. Forgas, Martie G. Haselton ve William von Hippel, den, <i>Evolution and the Social Mind: Evolutionary Psychology and Social Cognition</i> (New York: Psychology Press, 2011).</p>
<p><a id="w12" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w12">12.</a> Marc Bekoff ve John A. Byers, den, <i>Animals Play: rative and Ecological Perspective</i> (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1998); Marek Spnika, Ruth C. Newberry ve Mark Bekoff, “Mammalian Play: Training for the Unexpected”, <i>The Quarterly of Biology</i> 76:2 (2001): 141-68; Gordon M. Burghardt, <i>The Genesis of Animal Play: Testing the Limits</i> (Cambridge: MİT Press, 2005); Wojciech Pisula, “Play and Exploration in Animals - A Comparative Analysis”, <i>Polish Psychological Bulletin</i> 39:2 (2008): 104-7; Ana Flora Sarti Oliveira ve diğ.,“Play Behavior in Nonhuman Animal and the Animal Welfare Issue”, <i>Journal of Etho</i><i>logy</i> 28:1 (2010): 1-5. Evcilleştirilmiş ineklerin sosyal ve bilişsel yetenekleri hakkında daha fazlası için lütfen bkz: D. W. Bailey ve diğ., “Characteristics of spatial memory in cattle”. <i>Applied Animal Behaviour Science</i> 23:4 (1989), 331-340; T. Ksiksi ve E.A. Laca, “Cattle do remember locations of preferred food över extended periods”. <i>Asian Australasian Journal of Animal Sciences</i> 15:6 (2002), 900-904; R. Kilgour, “Use of the Hebb-Williams closedfield test to study the leaming ability of Jersey cows”. <i>Animal Behaviour</i> 29 (1981), 850-860; A. M. de Passille ve diğ., “Dairy calves” discrimination of people based on previous handling”. <i>Journal of Animal Science</i> 74 (1996), 969-974; C. H. Barfield, Z. Tang-Martinez ve J. M. Trainer, “Domestic calves (Bos taurus) recognize their own mothers by auditory cues”. <i>Ethology</i> 97:4 (1994), 257-264; M. Coulon ve diğ., “Social cognition and welfare in cattle: capacides of visual species discrimination”, <i>14 emes Recontres autour des recherches sur les Paris, les 5 et 6 Decembre 2007</i> (Paris: Insdtut National de la Recherche Agronomique (INRA), 2007), 297-300; K. Hagen ve D.M. Broom, “Cattle discriminate between individual familiar herd members in a learning experiment”, <i>Applied Animal Behaviour Science</i> 82:1 (2003), 13-28; C.J.C. Phillips ve diğ., “Lateralization of behavior in dairy cows in response to conspecifics and novel persons”. <i>Journal of Dairy Science</i> 98:4 (2015), 2389-2400; A. Boissy ve P. Le Neindre, “Behavioral, cardiac and cortisol responses to brief peer separation and reunion in cattle”, <i>Physiology &amp;</i> 61:5 (1997), 693-699.</p>
<p><a id="w13" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w13">13.</a> Tumbull ve Solms, <i>Brain and the lnner World<sub>9</sub></i> 90-2.</p>
<p><a id="w14" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w14">14.</a> David Harel, <i>Algorithmics: The Spirit of Computer s,</i> 3. ed. [İbranice] (Tel Aviv: Öpen University of Israel, 2001), 4-6; David Berlinski, <i>The Advent of the Algorithm: The 300-Year Joumey from an îdea to the Computer</i> (San Diego: Harcourt, 2000); Hartley Rogers Jr., <i>Theory of Recursive Functions and Effective Computability</i>, 3. ed. (Cambridge, MA ve Londra: MIT Press, 1992), 1-5; Andreas Blass ve Yuri Gurevich, “Algorithms: A Quest for Absolute Definitions”, <i>Bulletin of European Association for Theoretical Computer Science</i> 81 (2003), 195-225; Donald E, Knuth, <i>The Art of Computer Programming</i>, 2. ed. (New Jersey: Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, 1973).</p>
<p><a id="w15" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w15">15.</a> Daniel Kahneman, <i>Thinking, Fastand Slow</i> (New York: Farrar, Straus fic Giroux, 2011) [Türkçesi: Daniel Kahneman, <i>Hızlı ve Yavaş Düşünme,</i> (İstanbul: Varlık Yayınları, 2016)]; Dan Ariely, <i>Predictably Irrational</i> (New York: Harper, 2009) [Türkçesi: Dan Ariely, <i>A kıldığı ama Öngörülebilir,</i> (İstanbul: Optimist Yayınları, 2013)].</p>
<p><a id="w16" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w16">16.</a> Justin Gregg, <i>Are Dolphins Realty S Mammal Behind the Myth </i>(Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2013), 81-7; Jaak Panksepp, “Affective Consciousness: Core Emotional Feelings in Animals and Humans”, <i>ciousness and Cognition</i> 14:1 (2005), 30-80.</p>
<p><a id="w17" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w17">17.</a> A. S. Fleming, D. H. O’Day and G. W. Kraemeı, “Neurobiology of Mother-Infant Interactions: Experience and Central Nervous System Plasticity Across Development and Generations”, <i>Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Revietvs</i> 23:5 (1999), 673-85; K. D. Broad, J. P. Curley ve E. B. Keveme, “Mother-Infant Bonding and the Evolution of Mammalian Relationship”, <i>Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B</i> 361:1476 (2006), 2199-214; Kazutaka Mogi, Miho Nagasawa ve Takefumi Kikusui, “Developmental Consequences and Biological Significance of Mother-Infant Bonding”, <i>Progress in Neuro-Psychopharmacology and Biological Psychiatry</i> 35:5 (2011), 1232-41; Shota Okabe ve diğ., “The Importance of Mother-Infant Communication for Social Bond Formation in Mammals ”, <i>Antmal Science Journal</i> 83:6 (2012), 446-52.</p>
<p><a id="w18" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w18">18.</a> Jean O’Malley Halley, <i>Boundaries ofTouch: Parentingand Adult-Child İn</i><i>timacy</i> (Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 2007), 50-1; Ann Taylor Ailen, <i>Feminism and Motherhood in Westem 1890-1970: The Matemal </i><i>Dilemma</i> (New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2005), 190.</p>
<p><a id="w19" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w19">19.</a> Lucille C. Bimbaum, “Behaviorism in the 1920 s”, <i>American Quarterly</i> 7:1 (1955), 18.</p>
<p><a id="w20" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w20">20.</a> US Department of Labor (1929), “Infant Çare”, Washington: United States Government Printing Office, <a href="http://www.mchlibrary.info/history/chbu/3121-1929.PDF">http://www.mchlibrary.info/history/chbu/3121-1929.PDF</a>.</p>
<p><a id="w21" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w21">21.</a> Harry Harlow ve Robert Zimmermann, “Affectional Responses in the Infant Monkey”, <i>Science</i> 130:3373 (1959), 421-32; Harry Harlow, “The Nature of Love”, <i>American Psychologist</i> 13 (1958), 673-85; Laurens D. Young ve diğ., “Early Stress and Later Response to Sepration in Rhesus Monkeys”, <i>American Journal of Psychiatry</i> 130:4 (1973), 400-5; K. D. Broad, J. P. Curley ve E. B. Keveme, “Mother-Infant Bonding and the Evolution of Mammalian Social Relationships”, <i>Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Soceity B</i> 361:1476 (2006), 2199-214; Florent Pittet ve diğ., “Effects of Matemal Experience on Fearfulness and Matemal Behavior in a Precocial Bird”, <i>Antmal Behavior</i> 85:4 (2013), 797-805.</p>
<p><a id="w22" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w22">22.</a> Jacques Cauvin, <i>The Birth of the Gods and the Origins of Agriculture </i>(Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2000); Tim Ingord, “From Trust to Domination: An Altemative History of Human-Animals Relations”, <i>Animals and Human Society: Changing</i> , den Aubrey Manning ve James Serpeli (New York: Routledge, 2002), 1-22; Roberta Kalechofsky, “Hierarchy, Kinship and Responsibility”, <i>Communion of Subjects:</i> <i>mals in Religion, Science and Ethics</i>, der. Kimberley Patton ve Paul Waldau (New York: Columbia University Press, 2006), 91-102; Nerissa Russell, <i>Social Zooarchaeology: Humans and Animals in Prehistory</i> (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2012), 207-58; Margo DeMello, <i>Animals and Society:An Introduction to Human-Animal Studies</i> (New York: University of Columbia Press, 2012).</p>
<p><a id="w23" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w23">23.</a> Olivia Lang, “Hindu Sacrifice of 250,000 Animals Begins”, , 24 Kasım 2009, 21 Aralık 2014’te erişilmiştir, <a href="http://www.theguardian.com/">http://www.theguardian.com/</a> world/2009/nov/24/hindusacrificegadhimaifestivalnepal.</p>
<p><a id="w24" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w24">24.</a> Benjamin R. Fosteı^ der., <i>The Epic of Gilgamesh</i> (New York, Londra: W. W. Norton, 2001), 90.</p>
<p><a id="w25" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w25">25.</a> Noah J. Cohen, <i>Tsa<sup>f</sup>ar Ba'ale Hayim: Prevention ofCruelty to Animals: Itsb</i><i>Bases,Development and Legislation in Hebrew Literatüre</i> (Kudüs, New York: Feldheim Publishers, 1976); Roberta Kalechofsky, <i>and </i><i>mal Rights: Classical and Contemporary Responses</i> (Marblehead: Micah Publications, 1992); Dan Cohen-Sherbok, “Hope for the Animal Kingdom: A Jewish Vision”, <i>A Communion of Subjects: Animals in Religion, Science and Ethics</i>, der. Kimberley Patton ve Paul Waldau (New York: Columbia University Press, 2006), 81-90; Ze’ev Levi, “Ethical Issues of Animal Welfare in Jewish Thought”, <i>Judaism and Environmental Ethics: A</i> , der. Martin D. Yaffe (Plymouth: Lexington, 2001), 321-32; Norm Phelps, <i>The Dominion of Love:Animal Rights According to the Bible</i> (New York: Lantem Books, 2002); Dovid Sears, <i>The Vision of Eden: Animal Welfare and Vegetarianism in Jewish LawMysticism</i> (Spring Valley: Orot, 2003); Nosson Slifkin, <i>Man and Beast: Our Relationships with Animals in Jewish Law and Thought</i> (New York: Lambda, 2006).</p>
<p><a id="w26" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w26">26.</a> Talmud Bavli, Bava Metzia, 85:71.</p>
<p><a id="w27" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w27">27.</a> Christopher Chapple, <i>Nonviolence t o Animals, Earth and Self in Asian Traditions</i> (New York: State University of New York Press, 1993); Panchor Prime, <i>Hinduism and Ecology: Seeds ofTruth</i> (Londra: Cassell, 1992); Christopher Key Chapple, “The Living Cosmos of Jainism: A Traditional Science Grounded in Environmental Ethics”, <i>Daedalus</i> 130:4 (2001), 207-24; Norm Phelps, <i>The Great Compassion: Buddhism and Animal Rights</i> (New York: Lantem Books, 2004); Damien Keown, <i>Buddhist Ethics: A Very Short Introduction</i> (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2005), ch. 3; Kimberley Patton ve Paul Waldau, der., <i>A Communion of Subjects: Animals in Religion, Science and Ethics</i> (New York: Columbia University Press, 2006), esp. 179-250; Pragati Sahni, <i>Environmental Ethics in Buddhism: A Approach</i> (New York: Routledge, 2008); Lisa Kemmerer ve Anthony J. Nocella II, der., <i>Cali to Compassion:Refle on Animal Advocacy from </i><i>World’s Religions</i> (New York: Lantern, 2011), esp. 15-103; Lisa Kemmerer, <i>Animals and World Religions</i> (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2012), esp. 56-126; Irina Aristarkhova, “Thou Shall Not Harm Ali Living Beings: Feminism, Jainism and Animals”, <i>Hypatia</i> 27:3 (2012): 636-50; Eva de Clercq, "Karman and Compassion: Animals in the Jain Universal History”, <i>Religions of South Asia</i> 7 (2013): 141-57.</p>
<p><a id="w28" href="../Text/Sardav25_0011.xhtml#w28">28.</a> Naveh, “Changes in the Perception of Animals and Plants”, 11.</p>
</i></blockquote>
</body>
</html>