<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/styles.css" type="text/css"/>
<title></title>
</head>
<body>
<h1 id="k"><i>Kaynaklar</i></h1>
<p>A. W. Phillips, “The Relation Between Unemployment and the Rate of Change of Money Wage Rates in the United Kingdom 1861-1957,” <i>Economica</i>, C. 25, S. 283-299, 1958.</p>
<p>Andrew Schotter, <i>Microeconomics</i>, 3. basım, Addison Wesley Longman, USA, 2001.</p>
<p>Alvin H. Hansen, <i>A Guide to Keynes</i>, Mc Graw Hill, New York, 1953.</p>
<p>Asaf Savaş Akat, <i>İktisadi Analiz</i>, 2. Basım, Eflatun Yayınevi, İstanbul, 2009.</p>
<p>Carolyn Weber ve Aaron Wildavsky, <i>A History of Taxation and Expenditure in the Western World</i>, Simon and Schuster, New York, 1986.</p>
<p>Charles I. Jones, <i>Introduction to Economic Growth,</i> 2. basım, USA, 2002.</p>
<p>David T. Beers, Marie Cavanaugh and Takahira Ogawa, “Sovereign Credit Ratings: A Primer”, <i>S &amp;P’s ratings Direct</i>, 2002.</p>
<p>E. K. Kunt, <i>İktisadi Düşünce Tarihi</i>, Dost Kitabevi, Ankara, 2005.</p>
<p>Eugene Diulio, <i>Macroeconomics</i>, 3. basım, Schaum’s Outline Series, McGraw Hill, USA, 1998.</p>
<p>Frederic S. Mishkin, <i>The Economics of Money, Banking and Financial Markets</i>, 3. basım, Harper Collins Publishers, USA, 1992.</p>
<p>Gordon Childe, <i>Tarihte Neler Oldu?</i></p>
<p>Gülten Kazgan, <i>İktisadi Düşünce veya Politik İktisadın Evrimi</i>, Remzi Kitabevi, 9. Basım, İstanbul, 2000.</p>
<p>Iames S. Duesenberry, <i>Income - Consumption Relations and Their Implications, Readings in Macroeconomics</i>, Holt Rinehart and Winston, 1967.</p>
<p>Jeffrey D. Sachs and Felipe Larrain B., <i>Macroeconomics in the Global Economy</i>, Prentice Hall, USA, 1993.</p>
<p>Jeffrey M. Davis (ed), <i>Macroeconomic Adjustment</i>, IMF Institute, Washington D.C., 1992.</p>
<p>Jim O’Neill, “Dreaming with BRICs: The Path to 2050”, <i>Global Economics Papers No: 99</i>, Goldman Sachs, October 2003.</p>
<p>John Maynard Keynes, <i>Genel Teori (İstihdam, Faiz ve Paranın Genel Teorisi)</i>, Kalkedon Yayınları, İstanbul, 2008.</p>
<p>John R. Hicks, “Mr. Keynes and the Classics; A Suggested Interpretation”, <i>Econometrica</i>, C. 5, s. 147-159, April 1937.</p>
<p>Lipsey, Steiner, Purvis, Courant, <i>Macroeconomics</i>, 9. basım, Harper&amp;Row, NewYork, 1990.</p>
<p>Mahfi Eğilmez, Ercan Kumcu, <i>Ekonomi Politikası</i>, 12. basım, Remzi Kitabevi, İstanbul, 2008.</p>
<p>Mahfi Eğilmez, <i>Hazine</i>, 5. basım, Remzi Kitabevi, İstanbul, 2006.</p>
<p>Mahfi Eğilmez, <i>Hitit Ekonomisi</i>, TEBE kitapları, Ege Yayınları, İstanbul, 2006.</p>
<p>Mahfi Eğilmez, <i>Küresel Finans Krizi (Piyasa Sisteminin Eleştirisi)</i>, Remzi Kitabevi, İstanbul, 2008.</p>
<p>Michel Beaud, <i>Kapitalizmin Tarihi</i>, Dost Kitabevi, Ankara, 2003.</p>
<p>N. Gregory Mankiw, <i>Macroeconomics</i>, 4. basım, Worth Publishers, USA, 2000.</p>
<p>Norman Frumkin, <i>Guide to Economic Indicators</i>, 2. basım, USA, 1994.</p>
<p>Nur Keyder, <i>Para (Teori-Politika-Uygulama)</i>, 5. Baskı, Ankara, 1996.</p>
<p>Paul A. Samuelson and William T. Nordhaus, <i>Economics</i>, 14. basım, McGraw Hill, USA, 1992.</p>
<p>Ralph T. Bryns and Gerald W. Stone, <i>Economics</i>, 4. basım, Scott, Foresman and Company, USA, 1989.</p>
<p>Richard Froyen, <i>Macroeconomics</i>, 2. basım, Macmillan, 1983.</p>
<p>Robert B. Ekelund, Jr., Charles D. Delorme, Jr., <i>Macroeconomics</i>, 2. basım, Business Publication, USA, 1987.</p>
<p>Robert Frank, Ben Bernanke, <i>Principles of Economics</i>, USA, 2001.</p>
<p>Robert M. Solow, “Technical Change and the Aggregate Production Function”, <i>The Review of Economics and Statistics</i>, C. 39, s. 312-320, 1957.</p>
<p>Steven E. Landsberg, <i>Price Theory</i>, 5. basım, USA, 2002.</p>
<p>Stuart Holland, <i>The Global Economy</i>, Weidenfeld and Nicholson, Londra, 1987.</p>
<p>Ted Walther, <i>Dünya Ekonomisi</i>, Alfa Yay. İstanbul, 2002.</p>
<p>Tümay Ertek, <i>Makroekonomiye Giriş</i>, Beta Yayınları, İstanbul, 2004.</p>
<p>Wallace C. Peterson, <i>Income, Employment and Economic Growth</i>, 6. basım, W.W. Norton&amp;Company, USA, 1988.</p>
</body>
</html>